ANT 001—Human Evolutionary Biology (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Processes and course of human evolution; primatology; biological and social diversity within Homo sapiens; human paleontology. GE credit: SE, SL, WE. Effective: 1999 Fall Quarter.

ANT 001Y—Human Evolutionary Biology (Hybrid Version) (4) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Lecture/Discussion—1.5 hours; Web Virtual Lecture—1.5 hours. Evolutionary theory and mechanisms of evolution; basic population and quantitative genetics; primatology; biological and cultural diversity within Homo sapiens; paleoanthropology. Students may not take both ANT 1 and ANT 1Y for credit. GE credit: SE, SL, WE. Effective: 2017 Winter

ANT 002—Cultural Anthropology (5) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Introduction to cultural diversity in its many forms and methods used by anthropologists to account for it. Relational dynamic of culture, history, and power in constituting "social facts" and "realities." Critical thinking of contemporary concerns. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2017 Winter Quarter.

ANT 003—Introduction to Archaeology (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Development of archaeology as an anthropological study; objectives and methods of modern archaeology. GE credit: SE, SL, SS. Effective: 2015 Spring Quarter.

ANT 004—Introduction to Anthropological Linguistics (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Exploration of the role of language in social interaction and world view, minority languages and dialects, bilingualism, literacy, the social motivation of language change. Introduction of analytical techniques of linguistics and demonstration of their relevance to language in sociocultural issues. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter

ANT 005—Proseminar in Biological Anthropology (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. ANT 1 or ANT 1Y recommended. Course primarily for majors. Integration of related disciplines in the study of biological anthropology through discussion and research projects. Principal emphasis in human adaptation to the environment. GE credit: OL, SE, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 013—Scientific Method in Physical Anthropology (4) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Fieldwork—1 hour; Lecture—2 hours. Skills for scientific thinking; designing, implementing, analyzing, interpreting, presenting, and criticizing research. Collection and analysis of original data. Basic statistical methods. GE credit: OL, SE, VL, WE. Effective: 2004

ANT 015—From Birth to Death: The Evolution of the Human Life Cycle (5) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Introduction to the biology of birth, childhood, marriage, the family, old age, and death. Examines comparative characteristics of nonhuman primates and other animals as well as cross-cultural variation in humans by study of selected cases. GE credit: SE, SL, WC, WE. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

ANT 020—Comparative Cultures (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Introduction to the anthropological study of cultural diversity. Case studies of eight societies will be presented to illustrate and compare the distinctive features of major cultural regions of the world. Concludes with a discussion of modernization. GE credit: ACGH, AH, DD, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 023—Introduction to World Prehistory (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Broadly surveys patterns and changes in the human species' physical and cultural evolution from earliest evidence for "humanness" to recent development of large-scale complex societies or "civilizations." Lectures emphasize use of archaeology in reconstructing the past. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 024—Ancient Crops and People (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. The archaeological evidence for domestication of plants and the origins of agricultural societies. Anthropological context of agriculture and the effects on sexual division of labor, social inequality, wealth accumulation, warfare, human health, and sedentism. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2005 Spring Quarter.

ANT 025—Ancient Animals and People (2) Lecture—2 hours. History of human and animal relationships and how animals have influenced social and economic structures of past societies. Why, when and how humans used animals in the context of hunting, domestication, secondary products, ritual, companionship, and conservation. GE credit: SS. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

ANT 026—Mummies of the Ancient World (2) Lecture—2 hours. Archaeological approaches for studying mummies and the process of mummification in the ancient world. Analytical techniques used, environmental factors promoting mummification, and archaeological conservation of mummified bodies. GE credit: SS, WC. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

ANT 028—Prehistoric Origins of Art (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Interdisciplinary look at the earliest evidence for art and symbolic behavior. Method and techniques to investigate Prehistoric art. Interpretative framework and relevance for understanding the role of symbolic activities in traditional societies. GE credit: SS. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

ANT 029—Vikings (2) Lecture—2 hours. History of the Vikings through the Slavic and Mediterranean regions in the East and across the vast North Atlantic region to the west. Emphasis on archaeology and sagas to understand Viking culture from the 8th to 11th centuries. GE credit: SS, WC. Effective: 2016

ANT 030—Sexualities (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Introduction to the study of sexuality, particularly to the meanings and social organization of same-sex sexual behavior across cultures and through time. Biological and cultural approaches will be compared, and current North American issues placed in a wider comparative context. GE credit: ACGH, AH, DD, SS, WC. Effective: 2005 Fall Quarter.

ANT 032—Drugs, Science and Culture (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Drugs, politics, science, society in a cultural perspective: emphasis on roles of science, government and the media in shifting attitudes toward alcohol, marijuana, Prozac and other pharmaceuticals; drug laws, war on drugs and global trade in sugar, opium, cocaine. (STS 032.) GE credit: SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2008 Fall Quarter.

ANT 034—Cultures of Consumerism (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Term Paper. Aspects of modern consumer cultures in capitalist and socialist countries. Transformations of material cultures over the past century. Case studies on the intersections of gender, class, and culture in everyday consumption practices. GE credit: SS, WC. Effective: 2007 Fall Quarter.

ANT 050—Evolution and Human Nature (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Evolutionary analyses of human nature, beginning with Lamarck, Darwin, Spencer and contemporaries, and extending through social Darwinism controversies to contemporary evolutionary anthropology research on human diversity in economic, mating, life-history, and social behavior. GE credit: SE, SL, WE. Effective: 2004 Fall

ANT 054—Introduction to Primatology (4) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Basic survey of the primates as a separate order of mammals; natural history and evolution of primates; consideration of hypotheses for their origin. GE credit: SE, SL, WE. Effective: 2007 Fall Quarter.

ANT 098—Directed Group Study (1-5) Variable. Primarily intended for lower division students. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

ANT 099—Special Study for Undergraduates (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

ANT 100—Theory in Social-Cultural Anthropology (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Discussion of the theoretical and philosophical developments in cultural anthropology from the 19th century to the present. No credit if taken ANT 137. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 101—Ecology, Nature, and Society (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or ANT 002 or ESP 030 or EVE 100 or BIS 101 recommended. Interdisciplinary study of diversity and change in human societies, using frameworks from anthropology, evolutionary ecology, history, archaeology, psychology, and other fields. Topics include population dynamics, subsistence transitions, family organization, disease, economics, warfare, politics, and resource conservation. (ESP 101.) GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 103—Indigenous Peoples and Natural Resource Conservation (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 or GEL 001 or ESP 030 recommended. Integration of the interests of resident and indigenous peoples with the conservation of natural resources and ecosystems, using case study examples from both the developing and developed world. Not open for credit for students who have completed ANT 121N. (Former ANT 121N.). GE credit: ACGH, DD, OL, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 104N—Cultural Politics of the Environment (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Political economy of environmental struggles. Relationship between social inequality (based on race, class and/or gender) and ecological degradation. Articulation of local peoples, national policy, and the international global economy in the contestation over the use of environmental resources. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 134N. (Former ANT 134N.). GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 105—Evolution of Societies and Cultures (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or ANT 002 or ESP 030 or EVE 100 or BIS 101 recommended. Interdisciplinary study of social and cultural evolution in humans. Culture as a system of inheritance,psychology of cultural learning, culture as an adaptive system,evolution of maladaptations, evolution of technology and institutions,evolutionary transitions in human history, coevolution of genetic and cultural variation. Only two units of credit for students who have completed ESP 101 or ANT 101 prior to fall 2004. (ESP 105. ) GE credit: QL, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 109—Visualization in Science: A Critical Introduction (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 or STS 001 or STS 020 recommended. Anthropological approaches to scientific visualization techniques, informatics, simulations. Examination of different visualization techniques toward understanding the work involved in producing them, critical assessment of their power and limits, especially when visualizations are used socially to make claims. (STS 109.) GE credit: SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2016

ANT 110—Language and Sociocultural Anthropology (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Role of language analysis and linguistic theory in the development of sociocultural anthropology. Language, culture, and thought; the linguistic accomplishment of social action; language ideology; language and social power. Language as cultural mediator of politicoeconomic process. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 117—Language and Society (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 004 or LIN 001 recommended; ANT 002 recommended. Consideration of language in its social context. Methods of data collection and analysis; identification of socially significant linguistic variables. Contributions of the study of contextualized speech to linguistic theory. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 120—Language and Culture (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 004 or LIN 001 recommended; ANT 002 recommended. Culture, cognition, meaning, and interpretation; language and the classification of experience; communication and learning in crosscultural perspective. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 121—Special Topics in Medical Anthropology (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Introduction to critical medical anthropology. Topics include anthropological analysis of bio-medicine, psychiatry, systems of knowledge and healing, the body, emotions, and clinical encounters in a cross-cultural perspective. (STS 121.) GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 122A—Economic Anthropology (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. The varieties of production, exchange, and consumption behavior in precapitalist economies, their interaction with culture and social-political organization, and the theories that account for these phenomena. The effects of capitalism on precapitalist sectors. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 122. (Former ANT 122.). GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2001 Winter Quarter.

ANT 122B—Anthropology and Political Economy (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Survey of anthropological approaches to the study of political organizations; inter-relationships among political institutions, economic infrastructures and cultural complexity. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 123A. (Former ANT 123A.). GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective:

ANT 123AN—Resistance, Rebellion, and Popular Movements (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Analysis of popular protest in Third World and indigenous societies ranging from covert resistance to national revolts. Comparative case studies and theories of peasant rebellions, millenarian movements, social bandits, Indian "wars", ethnic and regional conflicts, gender and class conflicts. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 123B. (Former ANT 123B.). GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective:

ANT 124—Religion in Society and Culture (4) Review all entries Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 Discussion of anthropological theories of religion with emphasis on non-literate societies. Survey of shamanism, magic and witchcraft, ritual and symbols, and religious movements. Extensive discussion of ethnographic examples and analysis of social functions of religious institutions. GE credit: AH, WC, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 124—Religion in Society and Culture (4) Review all entries Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Discussion of anthropological theories of religion with emphasis on non-literate societies. Survey of shamanism, magic and witchcraft, ritual and symbols, and religious movements. Extensive discussion of ethnographic examples and analysis of social functions of religious institutions. GE credit: AH, WC, WE. Effective: 2018 Fall Quarter.

ANT 125A—Structuralism and Symbolism (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Survey of anthropological approaches to understanding the logic of structuralism and symbolism in cultural analysis. Focus on how structural and symbolic interpretations relate to cultural and linguistic universals and to the philosophical basis of relativism in the social sciences. (Former course 125.) GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2017 Winter Quarter.

ANT 125B—Postmodernism(s) and Culture (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. U.S.-European postmodern condition. "Modernity" as an incomplete project for subordinated groups. The economic, social, technological and political conditions leading to postmodern aesthetics, in comparison with postcolonialism, feminism and minority discourse. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 126A—Anthropology of Development (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Theories of development and current critiques. Colonial legacies and post-colonial realities. Roles of the state and NGOs, population migrations, changing gender identities, cash-earning strategies, and sustainability issues. Stresses importance of cultural understandings in development initiatives. Case studies emphasizing non-industrial societies. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 126. (Former ANT 126.). GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 126B—Women and Development (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Current Third World and Western development issues concerning women in agriculture, industry, international division of labor, political movements, revolutions, politics of health, education, family and reproduction. Impact of colonialism, capitalism, the world system, and international feminism on women and development. No credit if taken ANT 131. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 127—Urban Anthropology (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002; or Consent of Instructor. Survey of approaches to urban living: political structures, organization of labor, class relations, world views. The evolution of urban life and its contemporary dilemmas. Cross-cultural comparisons discussed through case studies. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 128A—Kinship and Social Organization (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Comparative examination of personal kinship, descent, marriage, household and family organizations; the theories that account for variation, and recent advances in the treatment of these data. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 128. (Former ANT 128.). GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 128B—Self, Identity, and Family (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Exploration of self, identity, and family systems cross-culturally. Impact of class, gender, race, ethnicity, ruralization, urbanization, and globalization on notions of selfhood in different social/cultural systems. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 129. (Former ANT 129.). GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 129—Health and Medicine in a Global Context (4) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Recent works in medical anthropology and the science studies of medicine dealing with social and cultural aspects of global health issues such as AIDS, pandemics, clinical trials, cultural differences in illnesses, diabetes, organ trafficking, medical technologies, illness narratives, and others. (STS 129.) GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 130A—Cultural Dimensions of Globalization (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Cultural dimensions of recent economic and political developments frequently termed "globalization." GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 130BN—Migration and the Politics of Place and Identity (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Internal and international migration from an anthropological perspective, including causes, processes, and political, economic, and cultural effects of spatial mobility and displacement. Emphasizes the interplay of identity, place, and power in diverse cultural and historical contexts. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 123D. (Former ANT 123D.). GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall

ANT 131—Ecology and Politics (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Analysis of the complex interactions between ecological dynamics and political processes employing the emerging approach of political ecology. Case studies of environmental degradation (e.g., desertification, logging, mineral extraction, petroleum, water) from various cultural and geographic regions. GE credit: SS. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 132—Psychological Anthropology (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. History of the relationship between anthropology and psychoanalysis. Exploration of anthropology of emotions, colonial psychology, contemporary ethno-psychiatry, studies on personhood, possession, magic, altered states, subjectivity, and definitions of the normal and the pathological in different contexts and cultures. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 133—Anthropology of Ocean Worlds (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Exploration of various oceanic cultures and their engagement with the sea. Piracy, smuggling, exchange, maritime legal regimes, offshore policing, media infrastructures, and ocean ecologies. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2017 Winter Quarter.

ANT 134—Buddhism in Global Culture (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Class size limited to 50 students. Buddhist meditation and ritual as a cultural system that adapts to global and local forces of change. Anthropological theory and method in understanding global culture transmission, including Buddhist reform movements in Asia and Buddhist practice in the West. GE credit: AH, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 135—Media Anthropology (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Upper division standing. Examining human practices through their inscription in old and new media; evaluating the emergent fields of “cyber” and “digital” anthropology; and problematizing terms and concepts routinely deployed in studies of media worlds—platform, social media, hologram, algorithm, remediation, curation, animation. GE credit: AH, SS, VL, WC. Effective: 2017 Winter Quarter.

ANT 136—Ethnographic Film (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Overview of the use of film in anthropology and its advantages and limitations in comparison to written ethnographic descriptions. Essential features of ethnographic films. Film production in anthropological research and problems encountered in producing films in the field. GE credit: SS, VL, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 137—Meditation and Culture (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Class size limited to 50 students. Study and practice of the relation between meditation and cultural conditioning; comparison of Buddhist practice with other cultural constructions of mind, body, brain, thought, emotion, and self. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 138—Ethnographic Research Methods in Anthropology (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Basic concepts in and approaches to ethnographic field research. Problem formulation, research design, qualitative and quantitative data collection procedures, and techniques for organizing, retrieving, and analyzing information. Ethnographic description and constructed inference. Students will organize and conduct individual research projects. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 139AN—Race, Class, Gender Systems (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Comparative analysis of class/race/gender inequality, concentrating on the ways in which beliefs about descent, "blood," and biological difference interact with property and marital systems to affect the distribution of power in society. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 139. (Former ANT 139.). GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 139BN—Gender and Sexuality (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Gender and sexuality in foraging bands, horticultural and pastoral tribes, agricultural and industrial states. Debates on cultural evolution and distribution of gender hierarchies. Impact of politics, economics, religion, social practices, women's movements on gender and sexuality. Culture, nature and sexuality. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 130. (Former ANT 130.). GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 140A—Cultures and Societies of West and Central Africa (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Ethnographic survey of West Africa and Congo Basin with analyses of representative societies which illustrate problems of general theoretical concern. Major consideration will be the continuities and discontinuities between periods prior to European contact and the present. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 140B—Cultures and Societies of East and South Africa (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Ethnographic survey of Eastern and Southern Africa with analyses of selected societies which illustrate problems of interest to anthropologists. Major consideration will be given to continuities and discontinuities between periods prior to European contact and the present. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016

ANT 141B—Ethnography of California and the Great Basin (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. ANT 002 recommended. Description and analysis of the native peoples of California and the Great Basin, and their lifeways at the time of European contact. (Former course 141C.) GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 142—Peoples of the Middle East (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Peoples of the Middle East (including North Africa). Discussions of class relations, kinship organization, sex/gender systems, religious beliefs and behavior, ethnic relations, political systems. Impact of world systems, political and religious movements and social change. (Former course 136.) GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 143A—Ethnology of Southeast Asia (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Patterns of culture and social organization from prehistory to the present, in the context of historical, ecological, economic, and political settings. Emphasis on the relation of ethnic minorities to national states. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 144—Contemporary Societies and Cultures of Latin America (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Introduction to contemporary social structure of Latin America. Origins, maintenance and changes in inequality: economic responses to poverty, sociocultural responses to discrimination, and political responses to powerlessness. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2017 Winter Quarter.

ANT 145—Performance, Embodiment, and Space in South Asia (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002; or Consent of Instructor. South Asian cultures and societies with a focus on performance, embodiment, and space from several disciplinary fields. Topics may include colonialism, nationalism, religious traditions, media, popular culture, cities, social movements, modernity, body-cultures, identity, gender, and diasporas. GE credit: AH, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2005 Winter Quarter.

ANT 146N—Topics in the Anthropology of Europe (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Recent ethnographies of different nation-states and socio-political spaces in Europe. Topics include the question of old and new boundaries, historical and contemporary constructions of Europe, migration and ethnicity, citizenship, belonging, multiculturalism, and post/socialisms. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 147—Modern South Asia Cinema (4) Film Viewing—3 hours; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Upper-division standing or consent of instructor. South Asian cinema of last 100 years in the context of cultural, social, and political changes. South Asian history, Independence, Partition, urban life, class, migration, postcolonial identity, diaspora, gender, sexuality, religion, sport, performance, etc. (MSA 131B and CTS 146B.) GE credit: AH, SS, VL, WC, WE. Effective: 2017 Winter Quarter.

ANT 148A—Culture and Political Economy in Contemporary China (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Examining contemporary Chinese culture and political economy through reading ethnographic studies on recent transformations in rural and urban Chinese society. Special attention is given to state power, popular culture, spatial mobility, city space, and gender. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016

ANT 149A—Traditional Japanese Society (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Patterns of culture and social organization from prehistoric to early twentieth-century Japan. Origins, prehistory, and traditional religious and political systems, marriage and kinship, language and culture. Changes and continuities in traditional and contemporary Japanese culture are addressed. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 149B—Contemporary Japanese Society (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Introduction to contemporary Japanese social structure, social organization, and patterns of culture. Analysis of ruralurban cultural continuities and contrasts, class relations, political and economic systems, kinship, sex/gender systems, contemporary religious beliefs and behavior, conflict, consensus, and cultural stereotypes. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 151—Primate Evolution (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or BIS 002B or BIS 002C or EVE 010 recommended. Origin and relationships of the prosimians, monkeys, and apes. GE credit: SE, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 152—Human Evolution (5) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 recommended. Nature and results of the evolutionary processes involved in the formation and differentiation of humankind. GE credit: SE, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 153—Human Biological Variation (5) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or BIS 002B recommended. Origin, adaptive significance and methods of analysis of genetic differences among human populations. Special attention given to racial differences such as those in blood groups, plasma proteins, red cell enzymes, physiology, morphology, pigmentation and dermatoglyphics. GE credit: QL, SE, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 154A—The Evolution of Primate Behavior (5) Review all entries Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or ANT 054 or EVE 010 recommended. Examines ecological diversity and evolution of social systems of prosimians, monkeys, and apes, placing the social behavior of the primates in the context of appropriate ecological and evolutionary theory. GE credit: SE, VL, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 154A—The Evolution of Primate Behavior (5) Review all entries Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or ANT 054 or EVE 010 recommended. Examines ecological diversity and evolution of social systems of prosimians, monkeys, and apes, placing the social behavior of the primates in the context of appropriate ecological and evolutionary theory. GE credit: SE, WE. Effective: 2018 Fall Quarter.

ANT 154B—Primate Evolutionary Ecology (5) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or EVE 010 recommended. Examination of the ecology of primates within an evolutionary framework. Theoretical concepts in individual, population, and community ecology, illustrated with primate (and other vertebrate) examples, with additional discussion of primate and rainforest conservation. GE credit: QL, SE, WE. Effective: 2017 Winter Quarter.

ANT 154C—Primate Behavior: Methods & Experimental Design (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): (ANT 054 or ANT 154A or ANT 154B or NPB 102); (STA 013 or STA 013Y or STA 032 or STA 100 or SOC 046B); ANT 154CL (can be concurrent) Pass One restricted to upper division ANT majors; concurrent enrollment in ANT 154CL required. Scientific methods of studying, describing and analyzing the behavior and ecology of primates. (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: QL, SE, SL. Effective: 2018 Spring Quarter.

ANT 154CL—Laboratory in Primate Behavior (4) Review all entries Laboratory—6 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): (ANT 054 or ANT 154A or ANT 154BN); STA 013; Or equivalent of STA 013. Design and conduct of scientific "field studies" of the behavior of group-living primates at the California National Primate Research Center. GE credit: OL, SE, WE. Effective: 2008 Fall Quarter.

ANT 154CL—Laboratory in Primate Behavior (4) Review all entries Laboratory—6 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): (ANT 054 or ANT 154A or ANT 154B or NPB 102); (STA 013 or STA 013Y or STA 032 or STA 100 or SOC 046B); ANT 154C (can be concurrent); Concurrent enrollment with ANT 154C required. Pass One restricted to upper division Anthropology majors only. Design and conduct of scientific "field studies" of the behavior of group-living primates at the California National Primate Research Center. GE credit: OL, SE, WE. Effective: 2018 Fall

ANT 155—Primate Conservation Biology (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or ANT 054 recommended. Study of the taxonomic, ecological and cultural diversity of Primates and how human activities impact tropical ecosystems. Emphasis on case studies and applied research methods. Includes discussion about career opportunities in conservation. GE credit: QL, SL. Effective: 2018 Spring Quarter.

ANT 156A—Human Osteology (4) Laboratory—4 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or ANT 001Y recommended. Not open to students who have previously completed course 156. Human skeleton from archaeological, forensic, and paleontological perspectives, including anatomical nomenclature, variation with sex and age, function, evolution, growth, and development of bones and teeth. Hands-on study and identification of human skeletal remains. GE credit: SE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 156B—Advanced Human Osteology (4) Laboratory—4 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 156A; Or equivalent. Human skeletons from archaeological, forensic, and paleontological contexts. Bone and tooth structure, growth, and development; measurement, statistics, and biomechanics; assessment of age, sex, weight, height, and ancestry; and indicators of illness, injuries, diet, and activities. GE credit: SE. Effective: 2009 Spring Quarter.

ANT 157—Anthropological Genetics (3) Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or BIS 002C recommended. Method and theory of genetic and genomic analysis of molecular evolution of human and non-human primate populations. Special attention to the molecular evolutionary transition to humans and genetic differences among extant human populations and their adaptive significance. GE credit: QL, SE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 157L—Laboratory in Anthropological Genetics (2) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): ANT 157 (can be concurrent); ANT 001 or BIS 002C recommended; enrolled in ANT 157 concurrently or following. Methods for identifying genetic variation in human blood group antigens, serum proteins and red cell enzymes (hemaglutination), general electrophoresis on starch, cellulose acetate and polyacrylamide, immunodiffusion and immunoelectrophoresis on agarase. (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: QL, SE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 158—The Evolution of Females and Males: Biological Perspective (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 recommended. Current theoretical frameworks for explaining the evolution of sex differences and for understanding the interrelationship between biological processes and cultural construction of gender roles. GE credit: OL, SE, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 159—Molecular Anthropology of Native America (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or ANT 001Y or BIS 002B; or Consent of Instructor. Use of DNA and other genetic polymorphisms to test hypotheses regarding genetic relationships among different Native American tribal groups and about prehistoric population replacements and migrations to and within the Americas. Integration with craniometric, archaeological, paleoenvironmental, linguistic and ethnohistorical evidence. GE credit: QL, SE. Effective: 2018 Spring Quarter.

ANT 160—Neandertals and Modern Human Origins (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or ANT 001Y or equivalent recommended. Origins, evolution, and disappearance of Neandertals. Emergence of humans like us in both anatomy and behavior. Interpretation of the fossil and archaeological records of Europe and Africa. Genetics of living and fossil humans. GE credit: SE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 170—Archeological Theory and Method (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Introduction to history and development of archeological theory and method, with particular emphasis on the basic dependence of the latter on the former. Stress is on historical development of archaeology in the New World. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 172—New World Prehistory: The First Arrivals (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Survey of data relating to the peopling of the New World. Cultural adaptation and development of early inhabitants of North and South America. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 173—New World Prehistory: Archaic Adaptations (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. ANT 003 recommended. Introduction to and survey of prehistoric hunting and gathering adaptations across North America with particular emphasis on the East, Southeast, Midwest, Plains, Southwest, and Northwest. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 174—European Prehistory (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Survey of the prehistory of Europe from its earliest human inhabitants, to the Neandertals and first modern humans, and through early agricultural and complex societies. Analysis and interpretation of the European archaeological record for understanding human dispersals into Europe. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 175—Andean Prehistory: Archaeology of the Incas and their Ancestors (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Prehistory of the Andean region, especially Peru, from the earliest hunting and gathering societies through the Inca. Focus on the use of archaeological data to reconstruct ancient human adaptations to the varied Andean environments. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 176—Prehistory of California and the Great Basin (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. ANT 003 recommended. Description and analysis of the prehistoric peoples of California and the Great Basin from earliest times to European contact. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall

ANT 177—African Prehistory (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Survey of prehistory of Africa from early human ancestors, through modern human origins, and into early agricultural and complex societies and the Bantu expansion. Analysis and interpretation of the African archaeological record, incorporating human paleontology and genetics. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 178—Hunter-Gatherers (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Study and interpretation of the ancient and modern lifeway in which peoples support themselves with primitive technologies and without benefit of domesticated plants and animals. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 179—Asian Prehistory (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Survey of the prehistory of Asia from the earliest human occupations to the rise of complex societies. Special focus on fossil and archeological records. GE credit: SS. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 180—Zooarchaeology (4) Discussion/Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or ANT 003 recommended. Restricted to junior or senior standing. Theories and methods for studying animal skeletal remains from archaeological sites. Identification and quantification of zooarchaeological material, cultural and natural processes affecting animal bones pre- and postburial, and use of faunal remains for determining past human diets and past environments. GE credit: SE. Effective:

ANT 181— Archaeological Field Methods (4) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 Survey of archeological field methods and techniques. Strategies for survey and site location, mapping of artifacts and features, geophysical techniques, and hand excavation and analysis of stratigraphy. GE credit: DD, SE, SL, SS. Effective: 2017 Fall Quarter.

ANT 181L—Field Course in Archeological Methods (4) Fieldwork—5 sessions; Lecture/Discussion—5 sessions. Prerequisite(s): ANT 181; or Consent of Instructor. On-site course using archaeological methods and techniques held at a field location in the western United States, generally California or Nevada. Incorporates basic methods of archaeological survey, mapping, and excavation. GE credit: SE. Effective: 2017 Summer Special

ANT 182—Archaeometry (4) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Scientific techniques used to study the chemical and physical properties of archaeological materials. Types of anthropological questions that can be addressed with different methods. Preparation and analysis of archaeological materials. GE credit: QL, SE, VL, WE. Effective: 2016

ANT 183—Laboratory in Archeological Analysis (4) Laboratory—6 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. ANT 003 recommended. Limited enrollment. Museum preparation, advanced field investigation, and guidance in preparation of museum material for publication. May be repeated for credit with consent of instructor. GE credit: OL, QL, SE, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 184—Prehistoric Technology: The Material Aspects of Prehistoric Adaptation (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Examination of the role of lithic, ceramic, textile and wooden implements as elements in prehistoric survival and development. Emphasis is descriptive, but the significance of material resources as factors in prehistoric adaptation, settlement patterns, and culture change are discussed. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 185—Lithic Analysis (4) Lecture/Lab—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Basic concepts of lithic analysis. General introduction on the place of stone tool technology in the archeological record. Physics, terminology and methodological concepts behind the study of stone tools. Review of the development of stone tool technology from its emergence. GE credit: SS. Effective: 2016 Fall

ANT 186A—Museum Studies: Analysis of Native American Basketry (4) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Lecture/Lab—3 hours. Class size limited to 25 students. Study of ethnographic and prehistoric basketry from North America, especially California and Oregon, in a multidisciplinary anthropological context. Techniques for basketry attribution and textile analysis. GE credit: ACGH, AH, DD, OL, SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2015 Fall Quarter.

ANT 191—Topics in Anthropology (4) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Upper division standing. Intensive treatment of a special anthropological topic or problem. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2017

ANT 192—Internship in Anthropology (1-12) Internship—3-36 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Upper division standing. Work experience off and on campus in all subject areas offered in the Department of Anthropology under the supervision of a member of the faculty. Limited to Anthropology majors. May be repeated up to 12 unit(s). (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997

ANT 194H—Special Study for Honors Students (1-5) Variable—3-15 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Open only to majors of senior standing who qualify for honors program. Independent study of an anthropological problem involving the writing of an honors thesis. May be repeated for a total of 12 units. May be repeated up to 12 unit(s). (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 197T—Tutoring in Anthropology (1-5) Tutorial—1-5 hours. Prerequisite(s): Upper division standing with major in Anthropology and consent of Department Chairperson. Leading of small voluntary discussion groups affiliated with one of the department's regular courses. May be repeated for credit. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 198—Directed Group Study (1-5) Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Directed reading and group discussion of selected anthropological problems. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 199—Special Study for Advanced Undergraduates (1-5) Variable. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 200—History of Anthropology (4) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours; Term Paper. Historical development of socio-cultural theory within anthropology, from mid-19th to mid-20th Centuries. Focus on original theory texts in context of historical developments in the field as a whole. Effective: 2007 Fall Quarter.

ANT 201—Critical Readings in Ethnography (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Graduate student in Anthropology or consent of instructor. Critical readings of selected ethnographies that examine a wide range of important topics and analytical issues in social and cultural anthropology. Emphasis on how and why ethnographic writing has changed over time and its relationship with contemporary theoretical explorations. Effective: 2005 Spring Quarter.

ANT 202—History and Theory of Biological Anthropology (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. History of thought in biological anthropology and analysis of major theoretical problems in the field. Suggested for all first-year graduate students lacking intensive preparation in biological anthropology. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 203—History and Theory of Archaeology (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Generally restricted to graduate students; outstanding undergraduates with extensive training in archaeology with consent of instructor. History of archaeology and archaeological theory and analysis of archaeological research methodology. Effective: 2005 Fall Quarter.

ANT 204—Contemporary Issues in Anthropological Theory (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002; ANT 137; or Consent of Instructor. Advanced consideration of fundamental issues in anthropological theory. Emphasis on critical examination of major contemporary debates between proponents of competing theories. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 205—History and Theory in Anthropological Linguistics (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. History of thought in anthropological linguistics. Consideration of the historical development of fundamental ideas in anthropological linguistics, of major theoretical issues, and of research methodology. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 206—Research Design and Method in Social Anthropology (5) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Formulation of research problems and preparation of research proposals; relationships between theory and method, funding, prefieldwork preparations, entering the community, field research techniques, and problems of ethics; intensive work on proposal writing. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). Effective: 1997 Winter

ANT 207—Ethnographic Writing (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 137; ANT 201; Or the equivalent. Relationship between conducting participant observation of others and writing it up,emphasizing the processual rift between the reality of fieldwork and its written representation. Study of various literary genres and textual strategies used in cultural anthropology. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 210—Aspects of Culture Structure (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Analysis of various phases of culture, such as religion, economics, law, and folklore. May be repeated for credit when topic differs. May be repeated for credit. Effective:

ANT 212—Political Ecology (4) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing or consent of instructor. Interdisciplinary seminar evaluating contributions from ecological anthropology, political economy, cultural constructivism, postmodernism, and feminism towards development of theories of political ecology. Historical relationships between local/global power structures, environmental degradation, and resistance movements. Case studies of desertification, deforestation, mining, conservation, development. Effective: 1999 Spring Quarter.

ANT 216—Problems in Archeological Method (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Techniques for analyzing archeological data; application to various prehistoric cultures. May be repeated for credit with consent of instructor. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 217—Quantitative Modeling in Archaeology (4) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Examination of the nature of archaeological data with a focus on the quantitative and statistical techniques available to model, analyze, display, and make sense of such data. Effective: 2007 Fall Quarter.

ANT 218—Topics in New World Prehistory (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Advanced study on current problems in New World Prehistory and archaeology. May be repeated for credit only if material is unique for that student and with consent of instructor. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2008 Fall Quarter.

ANT 219—Topics in Old World Prehistory (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Advanced study on current problems in Old World prehistory and archaeology. May be repeated for credit only if material is unique for that student and with consent of instructor. Effective: 2008 Fall Quarter.

ANT 220—Field Course in Linguistics (4) Laboratory—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 110; ANT 111 Techniques of eliciting, recording, and analyzing; work with a native speaker. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 221—Rural Transformation in Postcolonial Societies (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 223; ANT 265; or Consent of Instructor. Problems of rural transformation arising out of political and economic interaction between national elites and rural regional and local populations under varying conditions of induced change in postcolonial societies. Attention will be given to the implications of this interaction for rapid economic growth. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 222—Cities and Citizenship (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Graduate standing. Explores the nature of modern cities, urban socioeconomic life, and urban culture and politics from an anthropological perspective. Effective: 2000 Fall Quarter.

ANT 223—Economic Anthropology (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 122; or Consent of Instructor. Selected current methodological and theoretical problems in the analysis of nonindustrial economic systems. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 224—Problems in Comparative Religion (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Advanced study of current problems in the anthropological study of religion. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 225—State and Nation in the Modern World (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. A presentation of current anthropological theories of the origins and nature of the modern nation-state in both the First and Third Worlds, with special reference to state ideology (nationalism) and forms of control. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 226—Consciousness and Resistance (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Completion of first-year graduate work or consent of instructor. Consideration of approaches to the study of social inequality, and responses of subordinated groups. Emphasis on situating approaches to contemporary social theory, concrete research problems, and political strategies. Topics: formation of consciousness and identity; collective action, accommodation to frontal resistance. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 228—Culture and Power (4) Extensive Writing; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing or consent of instructor. Exploration of one of the core paradigms within contemporary anthropological inquiry, "culture and power." Focus on how distinct theoretical perspectives--Marxism, post-Marxism, structuralism, post-structuralism, and feminism--have examined the mutually constitutive nature of culture and power. Effective: 1999 Fall Quarter.

ANT 229—Gender, Identity, and Self (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Intersections of gender, identity, and selfhood crossculturally and historically. How the self is feminized and masculinized, and interfaces with sexual, race, class, work, national, minority, and majority identities under different historical, cultural, and social structural conditions. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 230—Family Systems and Reproduction: Theory and Comparisons (4) Lecture—1.5 hours; Seminar—1.5 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing in one of the social sciences including History. Comparative examination of family systems in historical context and of reproductive behaviors and strategizing. A major theme is how family-system norms specify the relative desirability of differently configured offspring sets.Cases are drawn from Western Europe and South and East Asia. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 232—Political Movements (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Completion of first-year graduate work recommended. An interdisciplinary approach to political movements of protest, reform, and revolution emphasizing historical comparison and evaluation of major theoretical approaches including world systems, resource mobilization, state and culture, rational choice, moral economy, social class and gender. Effective: 1997 Winter

ANT 239—Problems in African Society and Culture (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Diachronic analyses of traditional institutions in sub-Saharan Africa. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 241—Topics in North American Ethnology (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Advanced study on current problems in North American ethnography and culture history. May be repeated for credit with consent of instructor. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 245—Ethnology of Northern and Central Asia (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): A reading knowledge of German, Russian, Chinese, or Japanese. Lectures on the culture aboriginally found north of the Caucasus-Korea line. Supervised study of the primary and secondary sources. Work with informants when available. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 246—Ethnology of Europe (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Reading knowledge of a European language other than English. Supervised study of the primary and secondary sources dealing with the ethnography and ethnology of the peoples of Europe. Emphasis upon folk, peasant, and minority groups. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 248—Topics in Chinese Culture and Society (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing in the social sciences, history, or the humanities. Selected topics in the anthropology of Chinese society. Focus on one or more of the following topics: state-society dynamics, family and gender, city formation and urban life, social movement, labor politics, and religion and ideology in Chinese society. May be repeated for credit when topic differs. Effective: 1999 Fall Quarter.

ANT 250—Behavioral Ecology of Primates (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 154A (can be concurrent); Or the equivalent, graduate standing. Concepts, issues, and hypotheses in primate behavioral ecology, with emphasis on the social and ecological determinants and consequences of variation in social organization for individuals. Effective: 2003 Fall Quarter.

ANT 252—Human Evolution Seminar (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 152; and Consent of Instructor. Or the equivalent of ANT 152. Study of selected topics in human evolutionary studies. Each year course will focus on one or more of the following: molecular evolution, primate evolutionary biology, Tertiary hominoids, Australopithecus, Homo erectus, archaic Homo sapiens, brain evolution. May be repeated for credit. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 253—Seminar in Human Biology (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 153; ANT 157; or Consent of Instructor. Study of selected topics in human biology. May be repeated for credit when topics vary. Effective:

ANT 254—Current Issues in Primate Sociobiology (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 154B; Or the equivalent. Analysis of primate behavior, with particular emphasis on preparation for field studies. May be repeated for credit when topic differs. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 256—Primate Conservation Biology (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 154; Graduate standing, or upper division undergraduates with consent of instructor. Class size limited to 10 students. Application of understanding of primate biology to conservation of primates and their habitat. Topics include evolutionary anthropology, behavioral ecology, biogeography, macroecology, population biology, and socio-ecology of primates. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) term paper differs. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2003 Spring Quarter.

ANT 261—Modeling the evolution of social behavior (4) Extensive Problem Solving; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): MAT 016C; or Consent of Instructor. Or equivalent of MAT 016C. Tools and topics in modeling the evolution of social behavior in humans and other animals. Game theory, basic population genetics, animal conflict, altruism, reciprocity, signaling, and group selection. Effective: 2003 Spring Quarter.

ANT 262—Evolution and Human Behavior (4) Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing, or consent of instructor. Exploration of the links between behavioral ecological theory and human cultural variation, focusing on reproduction, marriage, parental investment and family structure; implications of evolutionary theory for social organization in human communities, historical and contemporary. Effective: 2005 Spring Quarter.

ANT 263—Human Applications of Foraging Theory (4) Discussion—3 hours; Laboratory—3 hours. Foraging theory models and their use in ethnographic and archaeological analyses of human behavior, with a focus on hunter-gatherers and resource selection, patch use, population and habitat, central places, sharing, stochastic processes, population dynamics, and conservation behavior. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 258. Effective: 2004 Fall Quarter.

ANT 265—Language, Performance, and Power (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate standing or consent of instructor. Exploration of the intersection between linguistic and social theories in the language-state relation and the performance of identity. Ideological sources of language differentiation; nation-building and linguistic difference. Political economic, sociolinguistic, and ethnographic approaches to understanding linguistic inequality. (LIN 265.) Effective: 2003 Fall Quarter.

ANT 270—Anthropology Colloquium Seminar (1) Seminar—1 hour. Reports and discussions of recent advances in the four subfields of anthropology. To be presented by guest speakers. May be repeated twice for credit. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 280—Current Anthropology Journal Editorial Workshop (4) Independent Study—3 hours; Workshop—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Students must enroll for all three quarters. Reading and offering workshop critiques of manuscripts submitted for publication, and reading and discussion of other relevant work in anthropology and human ecology. Track and edit published comments and authors’ replies that accompany major features. Participation in the development of new sections for the electronic edition of the journal, including a "news and views" section and a debate section. May be repeated up to 12 unit(s) with consent of instructor. (ECL 280. ) (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2000 Fall Quarter.

ANT 291—Advanced Topics in Human Behavioral Ecology (4) Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 261 or ANT 262 or ANT 263; and Consent of Instructor. Or comparable experience in anthropology or related disciplines. Topically focused, critical discussion of current and emerging research in the field of human behavioral ecology, giving special attention to theory, concepts, models, and methods for the evolutionary analysis of ethnographic and archaeological evidence. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) the topic differs and the material covered is substantially different. Effective: 2004 Fall Quarter.

ANT 292—Seminar in Linguistic Anthropology (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Selected topics in linguistic anthropology. May be repeated for credit when topic differs. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 298—Group Study (1-4) Variable. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 299—Research (1-12) Variable. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 299D—Dissertation Research (1-12) Variable. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 390—Teaching Anthropology (4) Practice—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing in Anthropology or closely related discipline. Intellectual and practical elements of college teaching in the field of Anthropology, from curriculum design and the syllabus through grading and course evaluations, including classroom and information technology methods, and problems and rewards of teaching in higher education. Effective: 2004 Fall Quarter.

ANT 396—Teaching Assistant Training Practicum (1-4) Variable—3-36 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 001—Human Evolutionary Biology (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Processes and course of human evolution; primatology; biological and social diversity within Homo sapiens; human paleontology. GE credit: SE, SL, WE. Effective: 1999 Fall Quarter.

ANT 001Y—Human Evolutionary Biology (Hybrid Version) (4) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Lecture/Discussion—1.5 hours; Web Virtual Lecture—1.5 hours. Evolutionary theory and mechanisms of evolution; basic population and quantitative genetics; primatology; biological and cultural diversity within Homo sapiens; paleoanthropology. Students may not take both ANT 1 and ANT 1Y for credit. GE credit: SE, SL, WE. Effective: 2017 Winter

ANT 002—Cultural Anthropology (5) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Introduction to cultural diversity in its many forms and methods used by anthropologists to account for it. Relational dynamic of culture, history, and power in constituting "social facts" and "realities." Critical thinking of contemporary concerns. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2017 Winter Quarter.

ANT 003—Introduction to Archaeology (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Development of archaeology as an anthropological study; objectives and methods of modern archaeology. GE credit: SE, SL, SS. Effective: 2015 Spring Quarter.

ANT 004—Introduction to Anthropological Linguistics (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Exploration of the role of language in social interaction and world view, minority languages and dialects, bilingualism, literacy, the social motivation of language change. Introduction of analytical techniques of linguistics and demonstration of their relevance to language in sociocultural issues. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter

ANT 005—Proseminar in Biological Anthropology (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. ANT 1 or ANT 1Y recommended. Course primarily for majors. Integration of related disciplines in the study of biological anthropology through discussion and research projects. Principal emphasis in human adaptation to the environment. GE credit: OL, SE, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 013—Scientific Method in Physical Anthropology (4) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Fieldwork—1 hour; Lecture—2 hours. Skills for scientific thinking; designing, implementing, analyzing, interpreting, presenting, and criticizing research. Collection and analysis of original data. Basic statistical methods. GE credit: OL, SE, VL, WE. Effective: 2004

ANT 015—From Birth to Death: The Evolution of the Human Life Cycle (5) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Introduction to the biology of birth, childhood, marriage, the family, old age, and death. Examines comparative characteristics of nonhuman primates and other animals as well as cross-cultural variation in humans by study of selected cases. GE credit: SE, SL, WC, WE. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

ANT 020—Comparative Cultures (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Introduction to the anthropological study of cultural diversity. Case studies of eight societies will be presented to illustrate and compare the distinctive features of major cultural regions of the world. Concludes with a discussion of modernization. GE credit: ACGH, AH, DD, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 023—Introduction to World Prehistory (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Broadly surveys patterns and changes in the human species' physical and cultural evolution from earliest evidence for "humanness" to recent development of large-scale complex societies or "civilizations." Lectures emphasize use of archaeology in reconstructing the past. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 024—Ancient Crops and People (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. The archaeological evidence for domestication of plants and the origins of agricultural societies. Anthropological context of agriculture and the effects on sexual division of labor, social inequality, wealth accumulation, warfare, human health, and sedentism. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2005 Spring Quarter.

ANT 025—Ancient Animals and People (2) Lecture—2 hours. History of human and animal relationships and how animals have influenced social and economic structures of past societies. Why, when and how humans used animals in the context of hunting, domestication, secondary products, ritual, companionship, and conservation. GE credit: SS. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

ANT 026—Mummies of the Ancient World (2) Lecture—2 hours. Archaeological approaches for studying mummies and the process of mummification in the ancient world. Analytical techniques used, environmental factors promoting mummification, and archaeological conservation of mummified bodies. GE credit: SS, WC. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

ANT 028—Prehistoric Origins of Art (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Interdisciplinary look at the earliest evidence for art and symbolic behavior. Method and techniques to investigate Prehistoric art. Interpretative framework and relevance for understanding the role of symbolic activities in traditional societies. GE credit: SS. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

ANT 029—Vikings (2) Lecture—2 hours. History of the Vikings through the Slavic and Mediterranean regions in the East and across the vast North Atlantic region to the west. Emphasis on archaeology and sagas to understand Viking culture from the 8th to 11th centuries. GE credit: SS, WC. Effective: 2016

ANT 030—Sexualities (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Introduction to the study of sexuality, particularly to the meanings and social organization of same-sex sexual behavior across cultures and through time. Biological and cultural approaches will be compared, and current North American issues placed in a wider comparative context. GE credit: ACGH, AH, DD, SS, WC. Effective: 2005 Fall Quarter.

ANT 032—Drugs, Science and Culture (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Drugs, politics, science, society in a cultural perspective: emphasis on roles of science, government and the media in shifting attitudes toward alcohol, marijuana, Prozac and other pharmaceuticals; drug laws, war on drugs and global trade in sugar, opium, cocaine. (STS 032.) GE credit: SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2008 Fall Quarter.

ANT 034—Cultures of Consumerism (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Term Paper. Aspects of modern consumer cultures in capitalist and socialist countries. Transformations of material cultures over the past century. Case studies on the intersections of gender, class, and culture in everyday consumption practices. GE credit: SS, WC. Effective: 2007 Fall Quarter.

ANT 050—Evolution and Human Nature (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Evolutionary analyses of human nature, beginning with Lamarck, Darwin, Spencer and contemporaries, and extending through social Darwinism controversies to contemporary evolutionary anthropology research on human diversity in economic, mating, life-history, and social behavior. GE credit: SE, SL, WE. Effective: 2004 Fall

ANT 054—Introduction to Primatology (4) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Basic survey of the primates as a separate order of mammals; natural history and evolution of primates; consideration of hypotheses for their origin. GE credit: SE, SL, WE. Effective: 2007 Fall Quarter.

ANT 098—Directed Group Study (1-5) Variable. Primarily intended for lower division students. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

ANT 099—Special Study for Undergraduates (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

ANT 100—Theory in Social-Cultural Anthropology (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Discussion of the theoretical and philosophical developments in cultural anthropology from the 19th century to the present. No credit if taken ANT 137. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 101—Ecology, Nature, and Society (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or ANT 002 or ESP 030 or EVE 100 or BIS 101 recommended. Interdisciplinary study of diversity and change in human societies, using frameworks from anthropology, evolutionary ecology, history, archaeology, psychology, and other fields. Topics include population dynamics, subsistence transitions, family organization, disease, economics, warfare, politics, and resource conservation. (ESP 101.) GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 103—Indigenous Peoples and Natural Resource Conservation (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 or GEL 001 or ESP 030 recommended. Integration of the interests of resident and indigenous peoples with the conservation of natural resources and ecosystems, using case study examples from both the developing and developed world. Not open for credit for students who have completed ANT 121N. (Former ANT 121N.). GE credit: ACGH, DD, OL, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 104N—Cultural Politics of the Environment (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Political economy of environmental struggles. Relationship between social inequality (based on race, class and/or gender) and ecological degradation. Articulation of local peoples, national policy, and the international global economy in the contestation over the use of environmental resources. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 134N. (Former ANT 134N.). GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 105—Evolution of Societies and Cultures (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or ANT 002 or ESP 030 or EVE 100 or BIS 101 recommended. Interdisciplinary study of social and cultural evolution in humans. Culture as a system of inheritance,psychology of cultural learning, culture as an adaptive system,evolution of maladaptations, evolution of technology and institutions,evolutionary transitions in human history, coevolution of genetic and cultural variation. Only two units of credit for students who have completed ESP 101 or ANT 101 prior to fall 2004. (ESP 105. ) GE credit: QL, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 109—Visualization in Science: A Critical Introduction (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 or STS 001 or STS 020 recommended. Anthropological approaches to scientific visualization techniques, informatics, simulations. Examination of different visualization techniques toward understanding the work involved in producing them, critical assessment of their power and limits, especially when visualizations are used socially to make claims. (STS 109.) GE credit: SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2016

ANT 110—Language and Sociocultural Anthropology (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Role of language analysis and linguistic theory in the development of sociocultural anthropology. Language, culture, and thought; the linguistic accomplishment of social action; language ideology; language and social power. Language as cultural mediator of politicoeconomic process. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 117—Language and Society (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 004 or LIN 001 recommended; ANT 002 recommended. Consideration of language in its social context. Methods of data collection and analysis; identification of socially significant linguistic variables. Contributions of the study of contextualized speech to linguistic theory. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 120—Language and Culture (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 004 or LIN 001 recommended; ANT 002 recommended. Culture, cognition, meaning, and interpretation; language and the classification of experience; communication and learning in crosscultural perspective. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 121—Special Topics in Medical Anthropology (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Introduction to critical medical anthropology. Topics include anthropological analysis of bio-medicine, psychiatry, systems of knowledge and healing, the body, emotions, and clinical encounters in a cross-cultural perspective. (STS 121.) GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 122A—Economic Anthropology (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. The varieties of production, exchange, and consumption behavior in precapitalist economies, their interaction with culture and social-political organization, and the theories that account for these phenomena. The effects of capitalism on precapitalist sectors. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 122. (Former ANT 122.). GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2001 Winter Quarter.

ANT 122B—Anthropology and Political Economy (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Survey of anthropological approaches to the study of political organizations; inter-relationships among political institutions, economic infrastructures and cultural complexity. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 123A. (Former ANT 123A.). GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective:

ANT 123AN—Resistance, Rebellion, and Popular Movements (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Analysis of popular protest in Third World and indigenous societies ranging from covert resistance to national revolts. Comparative case studies and theories of peasant rebellions, millenarian movements, social bandits, Indian "wars", ethnic and regional conflicts, gender and class conflicts. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 123B. (Former ANT 123B.). GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective:

ANT 124—Religion in Society and Culture (4) Review all entries Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 Discussion of anthropological theories of religion with emphasis on non-literate societies. Survey of shamanism, magic and witchcraft, ritual and symbols, and religious movements. Extensive discussion of ethnographic examples and analysis of social functions of religious institutions. GE credit: AH, WC, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 124—Religion in Society and Culture (4) Review all entries Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Discussion of anthropological theories of religion with emphasis on non-literate societies. Survey of shamanism, magic and witchcraft, ritual and symbols, and religious movements. Extensive discussion of ethnographic examples and analysis of social functions of religious institutions. GE credit: AH, WC, WE. Effective: 2018 Fall Quarter.

ANT 125A—Structuralism and Symbolism (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Survey of anthropological approaches to understanding the logic of structuralism and symbolism in cultural analysis. Focus on how structural and symbolic interpretations relate to cultural and linguistic universals and to the philosophical basis of relativism in the social sciences. (Former course 125.) GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2017 Winter Quarter.

ANT 125B—Postmodernism(s) and Culture (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. U.S.-European postmodern condition. "Modernity" as an incomplete project for subordinated groups. The economic, social, technological and political conditions leading to postmodern aesthetics, in comparison with postcolonialism, feminism and minority discourse. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 126A—Anthropology of Development (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Theories of development and current critiques. Colonial legacies and post-colonial realities. Roles of the state and NGOs, population migrations, changing gender identities, cash-earning strategies, and sustainability issues. Stresses importance of cultural understandings in development initiatives. Case studies emphasizing non-industrial societies. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 126. (Former ANT 126.). GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 126B—Women and Development (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Current Third World and Western development issues concerning women in agriculture, industry, international division of labor, political movements, revolutions, politics of health, education, family and reproduction. Impact of colonialism, capitalism, the world system, and international feminism on women and development. No credit if taken ANT 131. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 127—Urban Anthropology (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002; or Consent of Instructor. Survey of approaches to urban living: political structures, organization of labor, class relations, world views. The evolution of urban life and its contemporary dilemmas. Cross-cultural comparisons discussed through case studies. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 128A—Kinship and Social Organization (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Comparative examination of personal kinship, descent, marriage, household and family organizations; the theories that account for variation, and recent advances in the treatment of these data. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 128. (Former ANT 128.). GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 128B—Self, Identity, and Family (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Exploration of self, identity, and family systems cross-culturally. Impact of class, gender, race, ethnicity, ruralization, urbanization, and globalization on notions of selfhood in different social/cultural systems. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 129. (Former ANT 129.). GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 129—Health and Medicine in a Global Context (4) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Recent works in medical anthropology and the science studies of medicine dealing with social and cultural aspects of global health issues such as AIDS, pandemics, clinical trials, cultural differences in illnesses, diabetes, organ trafficking, medical technologies, illness narratives, and others. (STS 129.) GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 130A—Cultural Dimensions of Globalization (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Cultural dimensions of recent economic and political developments frequently termed "globalization." GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 130BN—Migration and the Politics of Place and Identity (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Internal and international migration from an anthropological perspective, including causes, processes, and political, economic, and cultural effects of spatial mobility and displacement. Emphasizes the interplay of identity, place, and power in diverse cultural and historical contexts. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 123D. (Former ANT 123D.). GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall

ANT 131—Ecology and Politics (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Analysis of the complex interactions between ecological dynamics and political processes employing the emerging approach of political ecology. Case studies of environmental degradation (e.g., desertification, logging, mineral extraction, petroleum, water) from various cultural and geographic regions. GE credit: SS. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 132—Psychological Anthropology (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. History of the relationship between anthropology and psychoanalysis. Exploration of anthropology of emotions, colonial psychology, contemporary ethno-psychiatry, studies on personhood, possession, magic, altered states, subjectivity, and definitions of the normal and the pathological in different contexts and cultures. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 133—Anthropology of Ocean Worlds (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Exploration of various oceanic cultures and their engagement with the sea. Piracy, smuggling, exchange, maritime legal regimes, offshore policing, media infrastructures, and ocean ecologies. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2017 Winter Quarter.

ANT 134—Buddhism in Global Culture (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Class size limited to 50 students. Buddhist meditation and ritual as a cultural system that adapts to global and local forces of change. Anthropological theory and method in understanding global culture transmission, including Buddhist reform movements in Asia and Buddhist practice in the West. GE credit: AH, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 135—Media Anthropology (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Upper division standing. Examining human practices through their inscription in old and new media; evaluating the emergent fields of “cyber” and “digital” anthropology; and problematizing terms and concepts routinely deployed in studies of media worlds—platform, social media, hologram, algorithm, remediation, curation, animation. GE credit: AH, SS, VL, WC. Effective: 2017 Winter Quarter.

ANT 136—Ethnographic Film (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Overview of the use of film in anthropology and its advantages and limitations in comparison to written ethnographic descriptions. Essential features of ethnographic films. Film production in anthropological research and problems encountered in producing films in the field. GE credit: SS, VL, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 137—Meditation and Culture (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Class size limited to 50 students. Study and practice of the relation between meditation and cultural conditioning; comparison of Buddhist practice with other cultural constructions of mind, body, brain, thought, emotion, and self. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 138—Ethnographic Research Methods in Anthropology (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Basic concepts in and approaches to ethnographic field research. Problem formulation, research design, qualitative and quantitative data collection procedures, and techniques for organizing, retrieving, and analyzing information. Ethnographic description and constructed inference. Students will organize and conduct individual research projects. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 139AN—Race, Class, Gender Systems (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Comparative analysis of class/race/gender inequality, concentrating on the ways in which beliefs about descent, "blood," and biological difference interact with property and marital systems to affect the distribution of power in society. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 139. (Former ANT 139.). GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 139BN—Gender and Sexuality (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Gender and sexuality in foraging bands, horticultural and pastoral tribes, agricultural and industrial states. Debates on cultural evolution and distribution of gender hierarchies. Impact of politics, economics, religion, social practices, women's movements on gender and sexuality. Culture, nature and sexuality. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 130. (Former ANT 130.). GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 140A—Cultures and Societies of West and Central Africa (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Ethnographic survey of West Africa and Congo Basin with analyses of representative societies which illustrate problems of general theoretical concern. Major consideration will be the continuities and discontinuities between periods prior to European contact and the present. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 140B—Cultures and Societies of East and South Africa (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Ethnographic survey of Eastern and Southern Africa with analyses of selected societies which illustrate problems of interest to anthropologists. Major consideration will be given to continuities and discontinuities between periods prior to European contact and the present. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016

ANT 141B—Ethnography of California and the Great Basin (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. ANT 002 recommended. Description and analysis of the native peoples of California and the Great Basin, and their lifeways at the time of European contact. (Former course 141C.) GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 142—Peoples of the Middle East (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Peoples of the Middle East (including North Africa). Discussions of class relations, kinship organization, sex/gender systems, religious beliefs and behavior, ethnic relations, political systems. Impact of world systems, political and religious movements and social change. (Former course 136.) GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 143A—Ethnology of Southeast Asia (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Patterns of culture and social organization from prehistory to the present, in the context of historical, ecological, economic, and political settings. Emphasis on the relation of ethnic minorities to national states. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 144—Contemporary Societies and Cultures of Latin America (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Introduction to contemporary social structure of Latin America. Origins, maintenance and changes in inequality: economic responses to poverty, sociocultural responses to discrimination, and political responses to powerlessness. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2017 Winter Quarter.

ANT 145—Performance, Embodiment, and Space in South Asia (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002; or Consent of Instructor. South Asian cultures and societies with a focus on performance, embodiment, and space from several disciplinary fields. Topics may include colonialism, nationalism, religious traditions, media, popular culture, cities, social movements, modernity, body-cultures, identity, gender, and diasporas. GE credit: AH, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2005 Winter Quarter.

ANT 146N—Topics in the Anthropology of Europe (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Recent ethnographies of different nation-states and socio-political spaces in Europe. Topics include the question of old and new boundaries, historical and contemporary constructions of Europe, migration and ethnicity, citizenship, belonging, multiculturalism, and post/socialisms. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 147—Modern South Asia Cinema (4) Film Viewing—3 hours; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Upper-division standing or consent of instructor. South Asian cinema of last 100 years in the context of cultural, social, and political changes. South Asian history, Independence, Partition, urban life, class, migration, postcolonial identity, diaspora, gender, sexuality, religion, sport, performance, etc. (MSA 131B and CTS 146B.) GE credit: AH, SS, VL, WC, WE. Effective: 2017 Winter Quarter.

ANT 148A—Culture and Political Economy in Contemporary China (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Examining contemporary Chinese culture and political economy through reading ethnographic studies on recent transformations in rural and urban Chinese society. Special attention is given to state power, popular culture, spatial mobility, city space, and gender. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016

ANT 149A—Traditional Japanese Society (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002 recommended. Patterns of culture and social organization from prehistoric to early twentieth-century Japan. Origins, prehistory, and traditional religious and political systems, marriage and kinship, language and culture. Changes and continuities in traditional and contemporary Japanese culture are addressed. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 149B—Contemporary Japanese Society (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Introduction to contemporary Japanese social structure, social organization, and patterns of culture. Analysis of ruralurban cultural continuities and contrasts, class relations, political and economic systems, kinship, sex/gender systems, contemporary religious beliefs and behavior, conflict, consensus, and cultural stereotypes. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 151—Primate Evolution (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or BIS 002B or BIS 002C or EVE 010 recommended. Origin and relationships of the prosimians, monkeys, and apes. GE credit: SE, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 152—Human Evolution (5) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 recommended. Nature and results of the evolutionary processes involved in the formation and differentiation of humankind. GE credit: SE, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 153—Human Biological Variation (5) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or BIS 002B recommended. Origin, adaptive significance and methods of analysis of genetic differences among human populations. Special attention given to racial differences such as those in blood groups, plasma proteins, red cell enzymes, physiology, morphology, pigmentation and dermatoglyphics. GE credit: QL, SE, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 154A—The Evolution of Primate Behavior (5) Review all entries Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or ANT 054 or EVE 010 recommended. Examines ecological diversity and evolution of social systems of prosimians, monkeys, and apes, placing the social behavior of the primates in the context of appropriate ecological and evolutionary theory. GE credit: SE, VL, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 154A—The Evolution of Primate Behavior (5) Review all entries Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or ANT 054 or EVE 010 recommended. Examines ecological diversity and evolution of social systems of prosimians, monkeys, and apes, placing the social behavior of the primates in the context of appropriate ecological and evolutionary theory. GE credit: SE, WE. Effective: 2018 Fall Quarter.

ANT 154B—Primate Evolutionary Ecology (5) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or EVE 010 recommended. Examination of the ecology of primates within an evolutionary framework. Theoretical concepts in individual, population, and community ecology, illustrated with primate (and other vertebrate) examples, with additional discussion of primate and rainforest conservation. GE credit: QL, SE, WE. Effective: 2017 Winter Quarter.

ANT 154C—Primate Behavior: Methods & Experimental Design (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): (ANT 054 or ANT 154A or ANT 154B or NPB 102); (STA 013 or STA 013Y or STA 032 or STA 100 or SOC 046B); ANT 154CL (can be concurrent) Pass One restricted to upper division ANT majors; concurrent enrollment in ANT 154CL required. Scientific methods of studying, describing and analyzing the behavior and ecology of primates. (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: QL, SE, SL. Effective: 2018 Spring Quarter.

ANT 154CL—Laboratory in Primate Behavior (4) Review all entries Laboratory—6 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): (ANT 054 or ANT 154A or ANT 154BN); STA 013; Or equivalent of STA 013. Design and conduct of scientific "field studies" of the behavior of group-living primates at the California National Primate Research Center. GE credit: OL, SE, WE. Effective: 2008 Fall Quarter.

ANT 154CL—Laboratory in Primate Behavior (4) Review all entries Laboratory—6 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): (ANT 054 or ANT 154A or ANT 154B or NPB 102); (STA 013 or STA 013Y or STA 032 or STA 100 or SOC 046B); ANT 154C (can be concurrent); Concurrent enrollment with ANT 154C required. Pass One restricted to upper division Anthropology majors only. Design and conduct of scientific "field studies" of the behavior of group-living primates at the California National Primate Research Center. GE credit: OL, SE, WE. Effective: 2018 Fall

ANT 155—Primate Conservation Biology (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or ANT 054 recommended. Study of the taxonomic, ecological and cultural diversity of Primates and how human activities impact tropical ecosystems. Emphasis on case studies and applied research methods. Includes discussion about career opportunities in conservation. GE credit: QL, SL. Effective: 2018 Spring Quarter.

ANT 156A—Human Osteology (4) Laboratory—4 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or ANT 001Y recommended. Not open to students who have previously completed course 156. Human skeleton from archaeological, forensic, and paleontological perspectives, including anatomical nomenclature, variation with sex and age, function, evolution, growth, and development of bones and teeth. Hands-on study and identification of human skeletal remains. GE credit: SE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 156B—Advanced Human Osteology (4) Laboratory—4 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 156A; Or equivalent. Human skeletons from archaeological, forensic, and paleontological contexts. Bone and tooth structure, growth, and development; measurement, statistics, and biomechanics; assessment of age, sex, weight, height, and ancestry; and indicators of illness, injuries, diet, and activities. GE credit: SE. Effective: 2009 Spring Quarter.

ANT 157—Anthropological Genetics (3) Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or BIS 002C recommended. Method and theory of genetic and genomic analysis of molecular evolution of human and non-human primate populations. Special attention to the molecular evolutionary transition to humans and genetic differences among extant human populations and their adaptive significance. GE credit: QL, SE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 157L—Laboratory in Anthropological Genetics (2) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): ANT 157 (can be concurrent); ANT 001 or BIS 002C recommended; enrolled in ANT 157 concurrently or following. Methods for identifying genetic variation in human blood group antigens, serum proteins and red cell enzymes (hemaglutination), general electrophoresis on starch, cellulose acetate and polyacrylamide, immunodiffusion and immunoelectrophoresis on agarase. (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: QL, SE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 158—The Evolution of Females and Males: Biological Perspective (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 recommended. Current theoretical frameworks for explaining the evolution of sex differences and for understanding the interrelationship between biological processes and cultural construction of gender roles. GE credit: OL, SE, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 159—Molecular Anthropology of Native America (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or ANT 001Y or BIS 002B; or Consent of Instructor. Use of DNA and other genetic polymorphisms to test hypotheses regarding genetic relationships among different Native American tribal groups and about prehistoric population replacements and migrations to and within the Americas. Integration with craniometric, archaeological, paleoenvironmental, linguistic and ethnohistorical evidence. GE credit: QL, SE. Effective: 2018 Spring Quarter.

ANT 160—Neandertals and Modern Human Origins (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or ANT 001Y or equivalent recommended. Origins, evolution, and disappearance of Neandertals. Emergence of humans like us in both anatomy and behavior. Interpretation of the fossil and archaeological records of Europe and Africa. Genetics of living and fossil humans. GE credit: SE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 170—Archeological Theory and Method (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Introduction to history and development of archeological theory and method, with particular emphasis on the basic dependence of the latter on the former. Stress is on historical development of archaeology in the New World. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 172—New World Prehistory: The First Arrivals (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Survey of data relating to the peopling of the New World. Cultural adaptation and development of early inhabitants of North and South America. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 173—New World Prehistory: Archaic Adaptations (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. ANT 003 recommended. Introduction to and survey of prehistoric hunting and gathering adaptations across North America with particular emphasis on the East, Southeast, Midwest, Plains, Southwest, and Northwest. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 174—European Prehistory (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Survey of the prehistory of Europe from its earliest human inhabitants, to the Neandertals and first modern humans, and through early agricultural and complex societies. Analysis and interpretation of the European archaeological record for understanding human dispersals into Europe. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 175—Andean Prehistory: Archaeology of the Incas and their Ancestors (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Prehistory of the Andean region, especially Peru, from the earliest hunting and gathering societies through the Inca. Focus on the use of archaeological data to reconstruct ancient human adaptations to the varied Andean environments. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 176—Prehistory of California and the Great Basin (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. ANT 003 recommended. Description and analysis of the prehistoric peoples of California and the Great Basin from earliest times to European contact. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall

ANT 177—African Prehistory (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Survey of prehistory of Africa from early human ancestors, through modern human origins, and into early agricultural and complex societies and the Bantu expansion. Analysis and interpretation of the African archaeological record, incorporating human paleontology and genetics. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 178—Hunter-Gatherers (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Study and interpretation of the ancient and modern lifeway in which peoples support themselves with primitive technologies and without benefit of domesticated plants and animals. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 179—Asian Prehistory (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Survey of the prehistory of Asia from the earliest human occupations to the rise of complex societies. Special focus on fossil and archeological records. GE credit: SS. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 180—Zooarchaeology (4) Discussion/Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 001 or ANT 003 recommended. Restricted to junior or senior standing. Theories and methods for studying animal skeletal remains from archaeological sites. Identification and quantification of zooarchaeological material, cultural and natural processes affecting animal bones pre- and postburial, and use of faunal remains for determining past human diets and past environments. GE credit: SE. Effective:

ANT 181— Archaeological Field Methods (4) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 Survey of archeological field methods and techniques. Strategies for survey and site location, mapping of artifacts and features, geophysical techniques, and hand excavation and analysis of stratigraphy. GE credit: DD, SE, SL, SS. Effective: 2017 Fall Quarter.

ANT 181L—Field Course in Archeological Methods (4) Fieldwork—5 sessions; Lecture/Discussion—5 sessions. Prerequisite(s): ANT 181; or Consent of Instructor. On-site course using archaeological methods and techniques held at a field location in the western United States, generally California or Nevada. Incorporates basic methods of archaeological survey, mapping, and excavation. GE credit: SE. Effective: 2017 Summer Special

ANT 182—Archaeometry (4) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Scientific techniques used to study the chemical and physical properties of archaeological materials. Types of anthropological questions that can be addressed with different methods. Preparation and analysis of archaeological materials. GE credit: QL, SE, VL, WE. Effective: 2016

ANT 183—Laboratory in Archeological Analysis (4) Laboratory—6 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. ANT 003 recommended. Limited enrollment. Museum preparation, advanced field investigation, and guidance in preparation of museum material for publication. May be repeated for credit with consent of instructor. GE credit: OL, QL, SE, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 184—Prehistoric Technology: The Material Aspects of Prehistoric Adaptation (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Examination of the role of lithic, ceramic, textile and wooden implements as elements in prehistoric survival and development. Emphasis is descriptive, but the significance of material resources as factors in prehistoric adaptation, settlement patterns, and culture change are discussed. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

ANT 185—Lithic Analysis (4) Lecture/Lab—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 003 recommended. Basic concepts of lithic analysis. General introduction on the place of stone tool technology in the archeological record. Physics, terminology and methodological concepts behind the study of stone tools. Review of the development of stone tool technology from its emergence. GE credit: SS. Effective: 2016 Fall

ANT 186A—Museum Studies: Analysis of Native American Basketry (4) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Lecture/Lab—3 hours. Class size limited to 25 students. Study of ethnographic and prehistoric basketry from North America, especially California and Oregon, in a multidisciplinary anthropological context. Techniques for basketry attribution and textile analysis. GE credit: ACGH, AH, DD, OL, SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2015 Fall Quarter.

ANT 191—Topics in Anthropology (4) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Upper division standing. Intensive treatment of a special anthropological topic or problem. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2017

ANT 192—Internship in Anthropology (1-12) Internship—3-36 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Upper division standing. Work experience off and on campus in all subject areas offered in the Department of Anthropology under the supervision of a member of the faculty. Limited to Anthropology majors. May be repeated up to 12 unit(s). (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997

ANT 194H—Special Study for Honors Students (1-5) Variable—3-15 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Open only to majors of senior standing who qualify for honors program. Independent study of an anthropological problem involving the writing of an honors thesis. May be repeated for a total of 12 units. May be repeated up to 12 unit(s). (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 197T—Tutoring in Anthropology (1-5) Tutorial—1-5 hours. Prerequisite(s): Upper division standing with major in Anthropology and consent of Department Chairperson. Leading of small voluntary discussion groups affiliated with one of the department's regular courses. May be repeated for credit. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 198—Directed Group Study (1-5) Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Directed reading and group discussion of selected anthropological problems. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 199—Special Study for Advanced Undergraduates (1-5) Variable. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 200—History of Anthropology (4) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours; Term Paper. Historical development of socio-cultural theory within anthropology, from mid-19th to mid-20th Centuries. Focus on original theory texts in context of historical developments in the field as a whole. Effective: 2007 Fall Quarter.

ANT 201—Critical Readings in Ethnography (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Graduate student in Anthropology or consent of instructor. Critical readings of selected ethnographies that examine a wide range of important topics and analytical issues in social and cultural anthropology. Emphasis on how and why ethnographic writing has changed over time and its relationship with contemporary theoretical explorations. Effective: 2005 Spring Quarter.

ANT 202—History and Theory of Biological Anthropology (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. History of thought in biological anthropology and analysis of major theoretical problems in the field. Suggested for all first-year graduate students lacking intensive preparation in biological anthropology. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 203—History and Theory of Archaeology (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Generally restricted to graduate students; outstanding undergraduates with extensive training in archaeology with consent of instructor. History of archaeology and archaeological theory and analysis of archaeological research methodology. Effective: 2005 Fall Quarter.

ANT 204—Contemporary Issues in Anthropological Theory (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 002; ANT 137; or Consent of Instructor. Advanced consideration of fundamental issues in anthropological theory. Emphasis on critical examination of major contemporary debates between proponents of competing theories. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 205—History and Theory in Anthropological Linguistics (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. History of thought in anthropological linguistics. Consideration of the historical development of fundamental ideas in anthropological linguistics, of major theoretical issues, and of research methodology. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 206—Research Design and Method in Social Anthropology (5) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Formulation of research problems and preparation of research proposals; relationships between theory and method, funding, prefieldwork preparations, entering the community, field research techniques, and problems of ethics; intensive work on proposal writing. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). Effective: 1997 Winter

ANT 207—Ethnographic Writing (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 137; ANT 201; Or the equivalent. Relationship between conducting participant observation of others and writing it up,emphasizing the processual rift between the reality of fieldwork and its written representation. Study of various literary genres and textual strategies used in cultural anthropology. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 210—Aspects of Culture Structure (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Analysis of various phases of culture, such as religion, economics, law, and folklore. May be repeated for credit when topic differs. May be repeated for credit. Effective:

ANT 212—Political Ecology (4) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing or consent of instructor. Interdisciplinary seminar evaluating contributions from ecological anthropology, political economy, cultural constructivism, postmodernism, and feminism towards development of theories of political ecology. Historical relationships between local/global power structures, environmental degradation, and resistance movements. Case studies of desertification, deforestation, mining, conservation, development. Effective: 1999 Spring Quarter.

ANT 216—Problems in Archeological Method (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Techniques for analyzing archeological data; application to various prehistoric cultures. May be repeated for credit with consent of instructor. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 217—Quantitative Modeling in Archaeology (4) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Examination of the nature of archaeological data with a focus on the quantitative and statistical techniques available to model, analyze, display, and make sense of such data. Effective: 2007 Fall Quarter.

ANT 218—Topics in New World Prehistory (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Advanced study on current problems in New World Prehistory and archaeology. May be repeated for credit only if material is unique for that student and with consent of instructor. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2008 Fall Quarter.

ANT 219—Topics in Old World Prehistory (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Advanced study on current problems in Old World prehistory and archaeology. May be repeated for credit only if material is unique for that student and with consent of instructor. Effective: 2008 Fall Quarter.

ANT 220—Field Course in Linguistics (4) Laboratory—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): ANT 110; ANT 111 Techniques of eliciting, recording, and analyzing; work with a native speaker. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 221—Rural Transformation in Postcolonial Societies (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 223; ANT 265; or Consent of Instructor. Problems of rural transformation arising out of political and economic interaction between national elites and rural regional and local populations under varying conditions of induced change in postcolonial societies. Attention will be given to the implications of this interaction for rapid economic growth. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 222—Cities and Citizenship (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Graduate standing. Explores the nature of modern cities, urban socioeconomic life, and urban culture and politics from an anthropological perspective. Effective: 2000 Fall Quarter.

ANT 223—Economic Anthropology (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 122; or Consent of Instructor. Selected current methodological and theoretical problems in the analysis of nonindustrial economic systems. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 224—Problems in Comparative Religion (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Advanced study of current problems in the anthropological study of religion. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 225—State and Nation in the Modern World (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. A presentation of current anthropological theories of the origins and nature of the modern nation-state in both the First and Third Worlds, with special reference to state ideology (nationalism) and forms of control. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 226—Consciousness and Resistance (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Completion of first-year graduate work or consent of instructor. Consideration of approaches to the study of social inequality, and responses of subordinated groups. Emphasis on situating approaches to contemporary social theory, concrete research problems, and political strategies. Topics: formation of consciousness and identity; collective action, accommodation to frontal resistance. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 228—Culture and Power (4) Extensive Writing; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing or consent of instructor. Exploration of one of the core paradigms within contemporary anthropological inquiry, "culture and power." Focus on how distinct theoretical perspectives--Marxism, post-Marxism, structuralism, post-structuralism, and feminism--have examined the mutually constitutive nature of culture and power. Effective: 1999 Fall Quarter.

ANT 229—Gender, Identity, and Self (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Intersections of gender, identity, and selfhood crossculturally and historically. How the self is feminized and masculinized, and interfaces with sexual, race, class, work, national, minority, and majority identities under different historical, cultural, and social structural conditions. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 230—Family Systems and Reproduction: Theory and Comparisons (4) Lecture—1.5 hours; Seminar—1.5 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing in one of the social sciences including History. Comparative examination of family systems in historical context and of reproductive behaviors and strategizing. A major theme is how family-system norms specify the relative desirability of differently configured offspring sets.Cases are drawn from Western Europe and South and East Asia. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 232—Political Movements (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Completion of first-year graduate work recommended. An interdisciplinary approach to political movements of protest, reform, and revolution emphasizing historical comparison and evaluation of major theoretical approaches including world systems, resource mobilization, state and culture, rational choice, moral economy, social class and gender. Effective: 1997 Winter

ANT 239—Problems in African Society and Culture (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Diachronic analyses of traditional institutions in sub-Saharan Africa. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 241—Topics in North American Ethnology (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Advanced study on current problems in North American ethnography and culture history. May be repeated for credit with consent of instructor. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 245—Ethnology of Northern and Central Asia (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): A reading knowledge of German, Russian, Chinese, or Japanese. Lectures on the culture aboriginally found north of the Caucasus-Korea line. Supervised study of the primary and secondary sources. Work with informants when available. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 246—Ethnology of Europe (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Reading knowledge of a European language other than English. Supervised study of the primary and secondary sources dealing with the ethnography and ethnology of the peoples of Europe. Emphasis upon folk, peasant, and minority groups. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 248—Topics in Chinese Culture and Society (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing in the social sciences, history, or the humanities. Selected topics in the anthropology of Chinese society. Focus on one or more of the following topics: state-society dynamics, family and gender, city formation and urban life, social movement, labor politics, and religion and ideology in Chinese society. May be repeated for credit when topic differs. Effective: 1999 Fall Quarter.

ANT 250—Behavioral Ecology of Primates (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 154A (can be concurrent); Or the equivalent, graduate standing. Concepts, issues, and hypotheses in primate behavioral ecology, with emphasis on the social and ecological determinants and consequences of variation in social organization for individuals. Effective: 2003 Fall Quarter.

ANT 252—Human Evolution Seminar (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 152; and Consent of Instructor. Or the equivalent of ANT 152. Study of selected topics in human evolutionary studies. Each year course will focus on one or more of the following: molecular evolution, primate evolutionary biology, Tertiary hominoids, Australopithecus, Homo erectus, archaic Homo sapiens, brain evolution. May be repeated for credit. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 253—Seminar in Human Biology (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 153; ANT 157; or Consent of Instructor. Study of selected topics in human biology. May be repeated for credit when topics vary. Effective:

ANT 254—Current Issues in Primate Sociobiology (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 154B; Or the equivalent. Analysis of primate behavior, with particular emphasis on preparation for field studies. May be repeated for credit when topic differs. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 256—Primate Conservation Biology (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 154; Graduate standing, or upper division undergraduates with consent of instructor. Class size limited to 10 students. Application of understanding of primate biology to conservation of primates and their habitat. Topics include evolutionary anthropology, behavioral ecology, biogeography, macroecology, population biology, and socio-ecology of primates. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) term paper differs. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2003 Spring Quarter.

ANT 261—Modeling the evolution of social behavior (4) Extensive Problem Solving; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): MAT 016C; or Consent of Instructor. Or equivalent of MAT 016C. Tools and topics in modeling the evolution of social behavior in humans and other animals. Game theory, basic population genetics, animal conflict, altruism, reciprocity, signaling, and group selection. Effective: 2003 Spring Quarter.

ANT 262—Evolution and Human Behavior (4) Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing, or consent of instructor. Exploration of the links between behavioral ecological theory and human cultural variation, focusing on reproduction, marriage, parental investment and family structure; implications of evolutionary theory for social organization in human communities, historical and contemporary. Effective: 2005 Spring Quarter.

ANT 263—Human Applications of Foraging Theory (4) Discussion—3 hours; Laboratory—3 hours. Foraging theory models and their use in ethnographic and archaeological analyses of human behavior, with a focus on hunter-gatherers and resource selection, patch use, population and habitat, central places, sharing, stochastic processes, population dynamics, and conservation behavior. Not open for credit to students who have completed ANT 258. Effective: 2004 Fall Quarter.

ANT 265—Language, Performance, and Power (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate standing or consent of instructor. Exploration of the intersection between linguistic and social theories in the language-state relation and the performance of identity. Ideological sources of language differentiation; nation-building and linguistic difference. Political economic, sociolinguistic, and ethnographic approaches to understanding linguistic inequality. (LIN 265.) Effective: 2003 Fall Quarter.

ANT 270—Anthropology Colloquium Seminar (1) Seminar—1 hour. Reports and discussions of recent advances in the four subfields of anthropology. To be presented by guest speakers. May be repeated twice for credit. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 280—Current Anthropology Journal Editorial Workshop (4) Independent Study—3 hours; Workshop—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Students must enroll for all three quarters. Reading and offering workshop critiques of manuscripts submitted for publication, and reading and discussion of other relevant work in anthropology and human ecology. Track and edit published comments and authors’ replies that accompany major features. Participation in the development of new sections for the electronic edition of the journal, including a "news and views" section and a debate section. May be repeated up to 12 unit(s) with consent of instructor. (ECL 280. ) (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2000 Fall Quarter.

ANT 291—Advanced Topics in Human Behavioral Ecology (4) Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): ANT 261 or ANT 262 or ANT 263; and Consent of Instructor. Or comparable experience in anthropology or related disciplines. Topically focused, critical discussion of current and emerging research in the field of human behavioral ecology, giving special attention to theory, concepts, models, and methods for the evolutionary analysis of ethnographic and archaeological evidence. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) the topic differs and the material covered is substantially different. Effective: 2004 Fall Quarter.

ANT 292—Seminar in Linguistic Anthropology (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Selected topics in linguistic anthropology. May be repeated for credit when topic differs. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 298—Group Study (1-4) Variable. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 299—Research (1-12) Variable. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 299D—Dissertation Research (1-12) Variable. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

ANT 390—Teaching Anthropology (4) Practice—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing in Anthropology or closely related discipline. Intellectual and practical elements of college teaching in the field of Anthropology, from curriculum design and the syllabus through grading and course evaluations, including classroom and information technology methods, and problems and rewards of teaching in higher education. Effective: 2004 Fall Quarter.

ANT 396—Teaching Assistant Training Practicum (1-4) Variable—3-36 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.
