BCB 210—Molecular Genetics and Genomics (3) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): BIS 101; MCB 121; Or equivalent courses. Pass One restricted to graduate students. Emphasizes molecular genetic and genomic approaches to address fundamental biological questions. Introduces and emphasizes the strengths of prokaryotic and eukaryotic model systems and serves as building block for the BMCDB core courses, which use model systems to develop their themes. Effective: 2015 Fall Quarter.

BCB 211—Macromolecular Structure and Interactions (3) Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): BIS 102; Or the equivalent, or consent of instructor. Pass One restricted to graduate students. Conceptual and quantitative basis for macromolecular structurefunction relationships. Investigation of the paradigm form follows function. Review of key elements of protein, nucleic acid, and membrane structure. Exploration of specific macromolecular associations by analyzing chemical structure and physical-chemical behavior. No credit for students that have taken BCB 221A. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

BCB 212—Cell Biology (3) Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): BIS 104; Or the equivalent, or consent of instructor. Pass One restricted to graduate students. Analysis of basic processes governing cell organization, division, and transport. Study of the integration and regulation of cell behavior in response to changes in cellular environment. No credit for students that have taken BCB 221D. Effective: 2014 Fall

BCB 213—Developmental Biology (3) Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Undergraduate biology course or consent of instructor. Pass One restricted to graduate students. Fundamental principles in embryonic development that guide application of modern cellular and genetic approaches to understand developmental mechanisms. Emphasis on experimental approaches used to critically address scientific questions. Effective:

BCB 214—Molecular Biology (3) Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): BCB 211; Or the equivalent, or consent of instructor. Pass One restricted to graduate students. Investigation of the basic cellular processes in prokaryotes and eukaryotes that govern the central dogma of molecular biology (DNA-RNA-protein). No credit for students that have taken BCB 221C. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

BCB 215—Graduate Reading Course (2) Discussion—10 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing or consent of instructor. Restricted to graduate students. Development of critical reading skills through study of major paradigm advances in specialized fields of biochemistry, molecular, cell, and developmental biology. Emphasis on active learning and student participation. Guided analysis of literature and major advances in field of study. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) if topic differs. Effective: 2014 Fall

BCB 220L—Advanced Biochemistry Laboratory Rotations (5) Laboratory—15 hours. Prerequisite(s): BCB 210; BCB 211 (can be concurrent); BCB 120L or the equivalent. Open to graduate students. Two five-week assignments in BMCDB research laboratories. Individual research problems with emphasis on methodological/procedural experience, experimental design, proposal writing and oral communication of results. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). Effective: 2014 Summer Session 1.

BCB 251—Molecular Mechanisms in Early Development (3) Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing or consent of instructor; introductory background in developmental biology and/or cell biology recommended. Analysis of the early events of development including: germ cells and other stem cells, gametogenesis, meiosis, imprinting, fertilization, genetically-engineered organisms, egg activation and establishment of embryonic polarity with focus on cellular events including gene regulation and cell signaling. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

BCB 255—Molecular Mechanisms in Pattern Formation and Development (3) Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing or consent of instructor; introductory background in developmental biology and/or genetics recommended. Genetic and molecular analysis of mechanisms that control animal development after fertilization. Establishment of embryonic axes, cell fate and embryonic pattern; induction, apoptosis, tissue patterning. Critical reading of current literature in C.elegans, Drosophila, and mouse genetic model systems. Effective:

BCB 256—Cell and Molecular Biology of Cancer (3) Lecture—1.5 hours; Seminar—1.5 hours. Prerequisite(s): BCB 210; BCB 212; BCB 213; BCB 214 Analysis of the pathologic alterations of cancer cells and therapeutic opportunities; with emphasis on animal models, tumor immunotherapy, stress response, metabolism, epigenetics, microRNAs and non-coding RNAs, and microbiota and inflammation. Effective: 2018 Spring Quarter.

BCB 257—Cell Proliferation and Cancer Genes (3) Lecture—1.5 hours; Seminar—1.5 hours. Prerequisite(s): BCB 221C and BCB 221D or equivalent courses. Genetic and molecular alterations underlying the conversion of normal cells to cancers, emphasizing regulatory mechanisms and pathways. Critical reading of the current literature and development of experimental approaches. Effective: 2015 Fall Quarter.

BCB 290—Seminar (1) Seminar—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of instructor and/or graduate standing. Presentation and discussion of faculty and graduate-student research. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2011 Fall

BCB 298—Group Study (1-5) Variable—1-5 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group Study (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

BCB 299—Research (1-12) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Research (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2011 Fall
