DRA 001—Theatre, Performance and Culture (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Not open to students who have completed DRA 001S. Introductory investigation of the nature of performance, moving from performance theory to consideration of various manifestations of performance including theatre, film and media, performance art, dance, sports, rituals, political and religious events, and other "occasions." GE credit: AH, DD, VL, WE. Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

DRA 001S—Theatre, Performance and Culture (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Not open to students who have completed DRA 001. Introductory investigation of the nature of performance, moving from performance theory to consideration of various manifestations of performance including theatre, film and media, performance art, dance, sports, rituals, political and religious events, and other "occasions." For Short Term Programs Abroad. Effective: 2005 Spring Quarter.

DRA 002—Acting: The Basics: History and Practice (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Introduction to the historical evolution of the actor – from ancient Greece & Asia to the Hollywood icon & postdramatic performer – and the practical foundations of acting for stage and screen. Onstage opportunities within lecture course structure. GE credit: AH, OL, VL. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

DRA 010—Introduction to Acting (4) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Fundamentals of movement, speech, theatre games, and improvisation. Selected reading and viewing of theatre productions. Intended for students not specializing in Dramatic Art. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2015 Spring Quarter.

DRA 011—Introduction to Presentation Skills (2) Lecture/Lab—4 hours. Class size limited to 20 students. Development of clear oral and physical communication skills that build confidence, presentational style and clarity for students whose command of English is at a basic level. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 014—Introduction to Contemporary Dance (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Introduction to basic issues and methods in contemporary dance. Focus on preparing the student for dancing and dance-making through basic techniques of improvisation and composition. Consideration of dance as a cultural practice. GE credit: VL. Effective: 2012 Fall Quarter.

DRA 020—Introduction to Dramatic Art (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Understanding and appreciation of both the distinctive and collaborative contributions of playwright, actor, director, and designer to the total work of dramatic art. Study of plays from the major periods of dramatic art in their cultural contexts. GE credit: AH, VL, WC, WE. Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

DRA 021A—Fundamentals of Acting (4) Laboratory—4 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Open to students planning to major in Theatre and Dance. Physical and psychological resources of the actor. Experience in individual and group contact and communication, theatre games, advanced improvisation, sound and movement dynamics. Viewing of theatre productions. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 024—Visual Aspects of Dramatic Art (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Understanding and appreciation of the visual aspects of dramatic art: theatre architecture, scenery, lighting, costume, and makeup. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective:

DRA 025—Technical Aspects of Dramatic Production (3) Lecture—3 hours. Technical principles of dramatic production emphasizing the three areas of scenic, costume and lighting studios. Subjects covered include basic tools, materials and equipment, production practices; and the interdisciplinary and collaborative nature of dramatic production. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 026—Performing Arts Production Management (3) Lecture—3 hours. Theoretical study of performing arts administration and backstage operations from audition through performance. Techniques of scheduling, production management, stage management, technical direction, audience control, box office, promotion, safety, accommodations for persons with disabilities and emergency procedures. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 030—Theatre Laboratory (1-5) Project (Term Project)—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Projects in acting, production, scene design, costuming, lighting, directing, and playwriting. Participation in departmental productions. May be repeated up to 11 unit(s). Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 040A—Beginning Modern Dance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Fundamentals of modern dance focusing primarily on the development of techniques and creative problem solving. Basic anatomy, dance terminology, and a general overview of modern dance history. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) Non-dance majors can only repeat the course once; dance majors may apply to the dance faculty advisor for permission to repeat more times; dance is a repetitive practice that involves constant reiteration and demands this for improvement and better understanding of the somatic and proprioceptive skills. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2017 Spring Quarter.

DRA 040B—Intermediate Modern Dance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 040A; or Consent of Instructor. Modern dance techniques. Basic anatomy, dance terminology and a general overview of modern dance history. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) For Dance majors, further repeats negotiated with faculty advisor in dance. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 041A—Beginning Jazz Dance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Fundamentals of jazz dance; includes warm-ups, dance techniques and combinations. Basic anatomy, dance terminology and general overview of jazz dance history. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). Effective: 2017 Spring Quarter.

DRA 041B—Intermediate Jazz Dance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 041A; or Consent of Instructor. Warm-ups, dance techniques and combinations at the intermediate level. Basic anatomy, dance terminology and a general overview of jazz styles of historically significant jazz choreographers and leading contemporary jazz choreographers. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) with consent of instructor. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 042A—Beginning Ballet (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Fundamentals of ballet, focusing on the development of technique through proper alignment, quality, and rhythm. Basic anatomy, ballet terminology, and dance history. May be repeated for credit with consent of instructor. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016

DRA 042B—Intermediate Ballet (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 042A; or Consent of Instructor. Barre and center work at the intermediate level. Development and refinement of technique through proper alignment, rhythmic, and qualitative understanding. Anatomy, ballet terminology, and dance history. May be repeated for credit with consent of instructor. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 043A—Contact Improvisation Dance (2) Lecture/Lab—4 hours. Fundamentals of contact improvisation and its applications to all forms of dance, performance, sports, physical safety and health. Solo improvisation, safety, communication, alignment, basic lifting and weight-sharing, intuition, developing relaxed readiness and personal expression. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

DRA 043B—Intermediate Contact Improvisation (2) Lecture/Lab—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 043A; or Consent of Instructor. Building on the fundamentals. Reviewing basics, extended improvising, skillfully working with partners of different sizes and abilities, advanced lifting, advanced safety practices, embracing risk and disorientation, subtle nuances of communication. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). GE credit: AH, VL. Effective:

DRA 044A—Beginning Hip Hop Dance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Fundamentals of Hip Hop dance focusing on developing a fluid movement vocabulary, facility in body isolations, intricate rhythmic patterning, quick shifts of weight and mastering dance combinations. Discussions on Hip Hop dance history, styles and terminology. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). Effective: 2002 Fall Quarter.

DRA 044B—Intermediate Hip Hop Dance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 044A; or Consent of Instructor. Expansion of Hip Hop dance vocabulary by focusing on mastering body isolations and intricate rhythmic techniques, complex dance combinations, advanced across the floor sequences. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). Effective: 2002 Fall Quarter.

DRA 055—Contemporary Local, National and Global Theatre, Dance and Performance (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Introduction a range of contemporary theatre, dance and performance in local, national and international settings. Training in critical approaches to and aesthetic appreciation of these forms. Emphasis varies based on instructor. GE credit: AH, DD, VL, WC. Effective: 2015 Fall Quarter.

DRA 056A—History of Theatre and Dance I: Myth, Magic and Madness (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Exploration of aesthetic movements in various disciplines of theatre and dance from the origins to 1550. Examination of Greek, Roman, Sanskrit, Kathakali, Chinese, Japanese, Mesoamerican, Medieval European, and Indigenous theatre and dance including oral, ritual and shamanic performance. Offered once a year. GE credit: AH, VL, WC. Effective: 2014 Fall

DRA 056B—History of Theatre and Dance II: Romance, Revenge and Rebellion (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Exploration of aesthetic movements in various disciplines of theatre and dance from 1550 to 1850. Examination of genres related to romance, revenge and rebellion using European, North and South American, and Asian examples. Offered once a year. GE credit: AH, VL, WC. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

DRA 056C—History of Theatre and Dance III: Sex, Society and the State (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Exploration of aesthetic movements in various disciplines of theatre and dance from 1850-1968. Examination of melodrama, popular theatre, naturalism, psychological realism, and the avant-garde using European, North and South American, Asian, and African examples. Offered once a year. GE credit: AH, VL, WC. Effective: 2015 Spring Quarter.

DRA 092—Internship in Dramatic Art (1-12) Variable—1-12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of instructor and department chairperson. Restricted to lower division students with less than 84 units completed. Internship outside the Department of Theatre and Dance enabling students to practice their skills. May be repeated up to 12 unit(s). (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2006 Fall Quarter.

DRA 098—Directed Group Study (1-5) Primarily for lower division students. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 099—Special Study for Undergraduates (1-5) (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 111—Advanced Presentation Skills (2) Lecture/Lab—4 hours. Class size limited 20 students. Development of clear oral and physical communication skills that build confidence, presentational style and clarity for students whose command of English is at a competent to fluent level. GE credit: OL. Effective: 2013 Spring

DRA 111S—Representation and Identity in Culture and Cinema (4) Film Viewing—4 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Issues of personal and collective identity via study of film narratives from different cultures. Reflection of dominant cultural identities in film. Taught in Australia. Effective: 2006 Spring Quarter.

DRA 114—Theatre on Film (4) Film Viewing—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Study of six/eight plays on film, using mixed casts and raising issues of diversity. Focus: sociohistorical context for production and reception, interpretation and analysis of topics (gender, ethnicity, age, politics, philosophy), and filming, screenwriting, design, and acting/directing for film. GE credit: AH, SS, VL. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 115—Advanced Study of Major Film Makers (4) Film Viewing—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Analysis of the contribution of some outstanding film creators. Study of diverse aesthetic theories of the cinema and their application to selected films. May be repeated for credit when different film creator studied, or studied with a different methodological approach. GE credit: VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 116—Design on Screen (4) Film Viewing—3 hours; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Analysis of the contribution of outstanding designers for cinema, television and filmed entertainment. Study of diverse aesthetic theories of production design and art direction, costume design, or cinematography. Introductory principles and practice, history. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) when topic differs. (CTS 116.) GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

DRA 120—Intermediate Acting/Gateway: The Actor's Toolkit (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 021A; or Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Implementation of acting tools drawn predominantly from Stanislavsky’s ‘system’. Gateway into the Advanced Acting courses. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 121A—Advanced Acting: Scene Study and Script Analysis (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 120; and Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Indepth study, analysis and performance of texts from different eras, genres and styles. Implementation of tools to undertake independent preparation of character creation. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s) Since acting requires repetition to habituate the body and imagination to new practices, this course may be taken twice. New scripts and scenes must be undertaken in the repetition. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 121B—Advanced Acting: Rehearsal Processes and Practices (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 120; and Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Development of rehearsal practice and etiquette, using a variety of scenes from different eras and genres. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s) The course has been established to enable visiting artists in residence to undertake the instruction, as well as faculty. Therefore, this course may be taken twice, as students will be exposed to different professional practitioners’ working processes. New etudes, scripts and scenes must be undertaken in the repetition. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2013

DRA 121C—Advanced Acting: Character and Style (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 120; and Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Study of psycho-physical techniques to create characters with an emphasis on non-realistic styles. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s) Since acting requires repetition to habituate the body and imagination to new practices, this course may be taken twice. New scripts and scenes must be undertaken in the repetition. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2012 Fall Quarter.

DRA 122A—Advanced Acting: Devising and Collaboration (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 120; and Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Study and practice of various devising techniques, to collaborate on and produce a series of short etudes and dramatic scenes/short plays. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s) Since acting requires repetition to habituate the body and imagination to new practices, this course may be taken twice. New scripts and scenes must be undertaken in the repetition. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2016

DRA 122B—Advanced Acting: Shakespeare and His Contemporaries (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 120; and Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Study and performance of classical texts (monologues and dialogues), with a focus on Shakespeare and the Elizabethan world view. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s) Since acting requires repetition to habituate the body and imagination to new practices, this course may be taken twice. New monologues and scenes must be undertaken in the repetition. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2013

DRA 122C—Advanced Acting: Special Topics in Acting (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 120; and Consent of Instructor. Restricted to Theatre and Dance majors; limited enrollment. Intensive study and practical exploration of a specialized area; for example, World Theatre, Social Theatre, Physical Theatre, Musical Theatre, the Ancient Greeks, etc. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s). GE credit: AH, OL, VL. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 124A—Principles of Theatrical Design: Scenery (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Pass One restricted to Theatre and Dance majors. Scene design processes, working drawings, sketching techniques, scale models, methods and materials of scenery construction. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

DRA 124B—Principles of Theatrical Design: Scenery (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Pass One restricted to Theatre and Dance majors. Analysis of plays in terms of scene design, elements of design, execution of designs for modern and period plays. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

DRA 124C—Principles of Theatrical Design: Lighting (4) Lecture/Lab—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Pass One restricted to Theatre and Dance majors. Theories of lighting the stage, equipment and control systems, execution of lighting plots. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

DRA 124D—Principles of Theatrical Design: Costume (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 024; Consent of Instructor. Pass one restricted to Theatre and Dance majors. Source materials for theatrical costuming, selecting fabrics, elements of design, analysis of plays in terms of costume design, execution of designs for modern and period plays. GE credit: AH, OL, VL. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

DRA 124E—Costume Design for Film (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Pass One restricted to Theatre and Dance majors. Theory and practice of the art and business of film costume design. Script analysis, costume research, developing design concepts, budgeting, and current production practices and methods. Execution of designs for period and contemporary films. Viewing of current films. (CTS 124E.) GE credit: AH, OL, VL. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

DRA 125—Scenic Painting: Studio (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—2 hours; Studio—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): DRA 024 or DRA 028; or Consent of Instructor. upper division standing in Theatre and Dance, Art Studio, or Design. Scene painting techniques, practices and materials including color mixing and matching, wood graining, faux painting techniques, glazing, creating foliage, stone and brick. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) with consent of instructor. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 126—Principles of Performing Arts Stage Management (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Stage management principles for theatre, dance, musical theatre, music, and concerts. The dynamical role of the stage manager in the performing arts, upper-management team. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

DRA 127A—Principles of Directing (4) Laboratory—4 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Director's creative approach to the play and to its staging. GE credit: VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 127B—Principles of Directing (4) Laboratory—4 hours; Lecture—2 hours; Rehearsal. Prerequisite(s): DRA 127A; or Consent of Instructor. Director's creative approach to the actor. GE credit: VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 128—Principles of Theatre Sound (3) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Fundamentals of sound, sound equipment, and sound design as used in modern theatre and other performance venues. Assembly, set-up, and operation of basic theatre sound reinforcement system, recording system, and theatrical playback system. Effective: 2004 Winter Quarter.

DRA 130—Approaches to Theatrical Design: Practice and Theory (4) Seminar—2 hours; Studio—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 124A or DRA 124B or DRA 124C or DRA 124D or DRA 124E; Upper division standing in Theatre and Dance, Art Studio or Design; or consent of instructor. Advanced design study in specific areas including but not limited to: research, design styles and concepts, new materials and techniques, scenery, lighting, costume, makeup, photography, projections, computer technology, spectacle and special effects, and alternative theatre forms and genres. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) when topic differs; when instructor differs. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 135—Voice in Performance (2) Performance Instruction—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 021B; or Consent of Instructor. Progression of exercises to free, develop and strengthen the voice, as a human and then as an actor's instrument with emphasis on how the voice works, to freeing the channel for sound, to interpersonal communication. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). Effective: 2009 Fall Quarter.

DRA 140A—Dance Composition (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 040A or DRA 041A or DRA 042A; or Consent of Instructor. Introduction to the craft of choreography. Compose phrases and present movement studies based on the elements of choreography: motivation, space, time, force/energy. GE credit: VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 140B—Dance Composition (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 140A Continuation of the study of choreography, focusing on the development of group choreography: duets, trios, quartets and group work, form, and accompaniment. Effective: 1999 Spring Quarter.

DRA 140C—Dance Composition (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 140A; DRA 140B Continuation of study of choreography focusing on sequencing movements for groups. The relation between dance and allied mediums of music, sets, costumes and lighting. Students conceptualize a choreographic issue and explore it through creation of short dance studies. Effective: 1999 Spring Quarter.

DRA 141—Introduction to the Fundamentals of Movement (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Introduction to fundamentals of movement that combines intellectual and kinesthetic understanding of the body's skeletal and muscular systems. Explorations based on theories of various body mind specialists including Laban, Feldenkrais, Bartenieff and Sweigard as well as the eastern discipline of Yoga. GE credit: VL. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

DRA 142—History of Modern Dance (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Modern Dance tradition, focusing on its theorizations of individual and social identity. Students will write and choreograph analyses of principle dances in this tradition. GE credit: AH, VL, WE. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

DRA 143—Dance and Movement Studio (1-4) Discussion/Laboratory—2-8 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Special studies in dance and movement such as African, Balinese, Baroque, Chinese, European, and stage combat. Offered as needed for stage productions. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s). GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 144—Introduction to Traditional Chinese Physical Culture (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Traditional Chinese Wushu practices, explored through practical work in dance laboratory conditions. Integration of practice with conceptual analysis; contemporary social, educational and artistic applications. GE credit: AH, SS. Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

DRA 144A—Introduction to Traditional Chinese Embodied Culture (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Traditional Chinese Wushu practices, explored through practical work in dance laboratory conditions. Integration of practice with conceptual analysis; contemporary social, educational and artistic applications. GE credit: AH, DD, SS, VL, WC. Effective: 2014 Winter

DRA 144B—Traditional Chinese Physical Culture (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 144A Traditional Chinese Wushu practices, explored through practical work in dance laboratory conditions. Integration of practice with conceptual analysis; contemporary social, educational and artistic applications. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) when content and instructor varies and if student progression is required. GE credit: AH, DD, SS, VL, WC. Effective: 2014 Winter Quarter.

DRA 144C—Daoist Philosophy in Traditional Chinese Movement Culture (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 144B Daoist practices of movement and their relation to daoist philosophy, explored through work in dance laboratory conditions. Integration of practice with conceptual analysis, and critical philosophy around values and ethical action. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) when content or instructor varies and if student progression is required. GE credit: AH, DD, VL, WC. Effective: 2014 Winter Quarter.

DRA 145—Directed Choreography Projects (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 140A; DRA 140B; DRA 140C; or Consent of Instructor. Conceptualization, creation, casting, rehearsing, and concert presentation of complete dances, with students integrating elements of stagecraft and directing the on-stage rehearsals. Effective: 1999

DRA 146A—Professional Track Modern Dance I (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Professionally oriented performance training. Rigorous, consistent training regimen based on traditional modern dance technique. Breath and voice, skeletal and muscular placement, moving from the spine, contraction technique, movement intention. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). GE credit: VL. Effective: 2016 Spring

DRA 146B—Professional Track Modern Dance II (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 146A; and Consent of Instructor. Body and space relationships in solos, duets and group work; stylistic variations of Graham technique; works of Paul Taylor. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). GE credit: VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 146C—Professional Track Modern Dance III (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 146A; DRA 146B; and Consent of Instructor. Continuation of course 146B. Time as a theatrical device, sustaining movement and nonmovement, phrasing, musicality. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). GE credit: VL. Effective: 2017

DRA 150—American Theatre and Drama (4) Lecture—4 hours. The history of the theatre from Colonial times to the present. Readings of selected plays. GE credit: ACGH, AH, DD, VL, WE. Effective: 2014 Winter Quarter.

DRA 151S—Australian Performance and Culture (4) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Australian performance and theatre practices as a product of its culture of origin. Relationships between art and society. Taught in Australia. Effective: 2006 Spring Quarter.

DRA 154—Asian Theatre and Drama: Contexts and Forms (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Selected Asian plays and performance forms in their cultural and artistic contexts; myth, ritual and the theatre; performance training, visual presentation of the text; political theatre; intercultural performance-the fusion of Asian and Western traditions. GE credit: AH, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 155—Representing Race in Performance (4) Lecture—4 hours. Representation and performance of "race" in American culture featuring different sub-headings such as "African American Theatre" or "Asian-Americans on Stage." May be repeated up to 1 time(s) when topic differs. GE credit: AH, DD, WE. Effective: 2012 Spring Quarter.

DRA 155B—Ancient and Contemporary Greek Theatre and Dance (6) Discussion/Laboratory—10 hours; Performance Instruction—10 hours; Seminar—13 hours. Origins of early theatres and the first actors, playwrights and dancers and their powerful influence on western performance and thought up to present day. Offered in Greece. GE credit: AH. Effective:

DRA 156AN—Performance Analysis (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Performance on the stage, in the street, in everyday life, ritual, and in politics. Satire, irony, creative protest and performance. Social movements, the state, and performance as tactical intervention. GE credit: AH, DD, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 156C—Modern Aesthetic Movements in Performance (4) Discussion—1 hour; Discussion/Laboratory—3 hours. Important movements in performance, especially theatre and dance, from realism to the present. Primary emphasis on Western traditions though others may be studied. GE credit: AH, WE. Effective: 2017 Spring Quarter.

DRA 156D—Theatre History Through Shakespeare (4) Extensive Writing; Lecture—4 hours. Shakespeare's plays, theatre history, and theatre today. European contexts from 1590-2004 and international theatre from 20th century. Stagecraft, different media (print, stage, film), social/political environments, design, and cultural change (gender, sexuality and ethnicity). May be repeated up to 1 time(s). GE credit: AH, OL, WC, WE. Effective: 2014 Spring Quarter.

DRA 158—Performance Studies Undergraduate Seminar (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. DRA 156AN recommended. Focused inquiry into a particular genre, period, movement, artist, or theme in performance. Philosophical and aesthetic issues as well as historical and cultural performance contexts. In-depth research projects in relationship to the subject of inquiry. May be repeated for credit. GE credit: WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 159—Contemporary Experimental Performance, Theatre and Drama (4) Extensive Writing; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Evaluation and examination of the "New Theatre;" its experimental and innovative nature since the 1960s. Dance, film, stage, performance art and public acts of a performative nature. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) if content differs. GE credit: AH, DD, VL, WC, WE. Effective: 2014 Spring Quarter.

DRA 159S—Contemporary Experimental Performance, Theatre and Drama (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Evaluation and examination of the "New Theatre;" its experimental and innovative nature since the 1960s. Dance, film, stage, performance art and public acts of a performative nature. May be repeated up to 12 unit(s) if instructor or content varies. GE credit: AH, WE. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

DRA 160A—Principles of Playwriting (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Analysis of dramatic structure; preparation of scenarios; the composition of plays. GE credit: WE. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

DRA 160B—Principles of Playwriting (4) Lecture—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 160A; and Consent of Instructor. Analysis of dramatic structure; preparation of scenarios; the composition of plays. GE credit: WE. Effective: 2016 Spring

DRA 170—Media Theatre (4) Lecture—1 hour; Performance Instruction—1 hour; Rehearsal—2 hours. New media and application of in theatre devising and performance. Emphasis on collaborative process in relationship to integration of emerging technologies and formation of new theatrical works. Development of collaborative performance through lecture, demonstration, improvisation and experimentation. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2017 Spring Quarter.

DRA 174—Acting for Camera (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Analysis and practice of acting skills required for camera work and digital media. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s) when instructor differs. (CTS 174.) Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 175—Small Scale Film Production (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Lecture and intensive workshop teaching small-scale film production. Appointments as a(n) director, director of photography, actor, writer, lighting designer, sound designer and other critical positions are used to produce and submit a short film to a film festival. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). (TCS 175.) Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

DRA 180—Theatre Laboratory (1-5) Variable—1-5 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Projects in acting, production, scene design, costuming, lighting, directing, and playwriting. Participation in departmental productions. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 180A—Theatre Laboratory: Performance (1-5) Rehearsal—12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Rehearsal and performance of a production directed or choreographed by visiting Granada Artists-in-Residence and/or faculty, and/or the UG Edge Festival. May be repeated for credit Since each production involves different scripts, directions, challenges of rehearsal practices and performance processes, it is possible for students to appear in a variety of productions in the course of their education. Admission by audition. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 180B—Theatre Laboratory: Design (1-4) Variable—1-4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Design-related participation in theatre and dance productions involves research, creation and implementation of design concept in collaboration with the director and other members of the production team. May be repeated for credit Because each theatrical piece is conceived and produced afresh with new source material, scripts, and production style the challenges and assignments for the designers will be new each and every time they design a show. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 180C—Theatre Laboratory: Management, Directing, other Production Team (1-5) Variable—3-15 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Participation in theatre and dance production in management, direction, choreography, dramaturgy, writing or other production related role; research, creation and implementation of production concept in collaboration with members of the production team and cast. May be repeated up to 5 unit(s) May repeat multiple times but only for a total of five units. Permission to repeat is required from the Dramatic Art department. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

DRA 180D—Theatre Laboratory: Crew (2-4) Laboratory—6-12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Participation in theatre and dance productions as backstage running crew which will involve skill development, rehearsal and execution of performance. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 180E—Theatre Laboratory: Scenic (1-4) Laboratory—3-12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Practical experience working on scenery and properties for theatre and dance department productions. Study and execution of basic scenery and prop engineering, construction, painting, rigging. Study of techniques, materials, tools, and equipment use. Skill development, professional etiquette. Safety training requirement. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 180F—Theatre Laboratory: Costume (1-4) Laboratory—3-12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Practical experience working on costumes for theatre and dance department productions. Study and execution of basic costume construction techniques and materials, tools, and equipment use. Skills development, professional etiquette. Safety training requirement. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 180G—Theatre Laboratory: Lighting/Sound/Projection (1-4) Laboratory—3-12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Practical experience working on lighting, sound or projections for theatre and dance department productions. Study and execution of basic techniques, materials, tools, and equipment use. Skill development, professional etiquette. Safety training requirement. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 192—Internships in Theatre and Dance (1-12) Internship—3-36 hours. Theatre production experience in creative, technical or management areas. Experience in galleries, performance sites, or theatre/dance/physical theatre companies. May be repeated up to 12 unit(s). Not open to students who have completed DRA 192S. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2004 Fall Quarter.

DRA 192S—Internships in Theatre and Dance (1-12) Internship—3-36 hours. Theatre production experience in creative, technical or management areas. Experience in galleries, performance sites, or theatre/dance/physical theatre companies. This course is offered in Sydney, Australia. May be repeated up to 12 unit(s). Not open to students who have completed DRA 192. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2005 Spring Quarter.

DRA 194HA—Special Study for Honors Students (3) Independent Study—9 hours. Prerequisite(s): Qualification for Letters and Science Honors Program and admission to Theatre and Dance Senior Honors Program. Preparation and presentation of a culminating project, under the supervision of an instructor, in one of the creative or scholarly areas of Theatre and Dance. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 194HB—Special Study for Honors Students (3) Independent Study—9 hours. Prerequisite(s): Qualification for Letters and Science Honors Program and admission to Theatre and Dance Senior Honors Program. Preparation and presentation of a culminating project, under the supervision of an instructor, in one of the creative or scholarly areas of Theatre and Dance. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 195—Senior Capstone Experience (2) Lecture/Discussion—1 hour; Project (Term Project). Open to Theatre and Dance Majors who have completed 135 or more units. Capstone experience for majors. Examination, reflection and synthesis on development. Discussion of professional development and translatable skills. Individual project and development of portfolio. (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: AH, WE. Effective:

DRA 197T—Tutoring in Dramatic Art (1-5) Tutorial—1-5 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Upper division or graduate standing with major in Theatre and Dance; consent of department chairperson. Leading of small voluntary groups affiliated with one of the department's regular courses. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 198—Directed Group Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

DRA 199—Special Study for Advanced Undergraduates (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

DRA 200—Methods and Materials in Theatre Research (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Essential research tools in theatre and related fields; bibliographies, primary sources; methods of evaluating and presenting evidence; delineating research areas in the field. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 211—Advanced Voice and Speech (3) Laboratory—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Open only to Dramatic Arts Students and Ph.D. students with an emphasis in Performance and Theatre. Review a progression of exercises to free, develop and strengthen the voice, first as a human instrument, and then as an actor's instrument using various texts such as Shakespeare, Ibsen and contemporary plays. Required for the M.F.A. degree in Acting. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 212—Advanced Stage Movement (3) Laboratory—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Graduate standing in the MFA Program. Open to advanced undergraduates by consent of instructor. Application of modes of exploration, breath placement, and the use of imagery as well as Laban's effort/shape system as a method of analysis in classic and modern plays. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2016 Spring

DRA 221—Special Problems in Advanced Acting (4) Laboratory—4 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Advanced acting problems arising from differences in the type and style of plays selected from Greece to the present. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 224A—Seminar in Theatrical Design: Ancient Worlds--Early 17th Century (4) Project (Term Project)—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group study while focusing primarily on one discipline: scenic, costume or lighting design. Periods covered: Greek, Medieval, Renaissance, Shakespearean, Jacobean, early 17th century. Design projects include script analysis, research of period style, fashion, character development, developing design concepts, presentation skills. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 224B—Seminar in Theatrical Design: Mid 17th Century to 1900 (4) Project (Term Project)—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group study focusing primarily on one discipline: scenic, costume or lighting design. Periods covered: Cavalier, Restoration 18th century opera and ballet, 19th century drama. Design projects include script analysis, research of period style, fashion, character development, developing design concepts,presentation skills. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 224C—Seminar in Theatrical Design: the 20th Century (4) Project (Term Project)—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group study focusing primarily on one discipline-scenic, costume or lighting design. 20th century genres covered: Realism, Brecht, Musicals, Contemporary Dance, short narrative film. Design projects include script analysis, research of period style, fashion, character development, developing design concepts, presentation skills. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 224D—Seminar in Theatrical Design: Contemporary Concepts (4) Project (Term Project)—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group study focusing primarily on one discipline: scenic, costume or lighting design. Emphasis on contemporary design concepts for new works and classics: Shakespeare, modern dance, concept plays and musicals. Script and character analysis for design in performance, research, design projects. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 224E—Seminar in Theatrical Design: Advanced Concepts (4) Project (Term Project)—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group study focusing primarily on one discipline: scenic, costume or lighting design. Emphasis on special issues in contemporary design concepts for new works and classics. Script and character analysis for design in performance, research, design projects. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 225—Performance Design Studio: Techniques and Media (2) Studio—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 224A (can be concurrent) or DRA 224B (can be concurrent) or DRA 224C (can be concurrent) or DRA 224D (can be concurrent) or DRA 224E (can be concurrent); Consent of Instructor. Exploration and development of techniques and skills in the performance design process. Drafting, model building, drawing, painting and rendering, costume drawing, color theory, lighting techniques, design portfolio preparation and presentation. May be repeated up to 5 time(s). Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 228—Seminar in Directing Theory: Non-Realism (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Modern directing theory as it applies to non-realistic theatre; development of directorial concepts for production of selected non-realistic plays-Greek to the present; emphasis on textual analysis. Effective: 2016 Spring

DRA 229—Special Problems in Directing (4) Laboratory—2 hours; Rehearsal—4 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Projects in directing scenes selected from plays from ancient Greece to the present. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Quarter.

DRA 230—Advanced Problems in Choreography and Performance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Explores contemporary issues of choreography and performance in depth and how those issues pertain to performance work. Focus will include contemporary thought on representation, legibility, new forms, and cultural attitudes. May be repeated up to 6 time(s). Effective: 2012 Winter Quarter.

DRA 244—Critical Approaches to Traditional Systems of Body Movement (4) Discussion/Laboratory—6 hours; Project (Term Project); Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Introduction to traditional systems for body movement, development of critical approaches to them, and experiments in how they inform training and practice in theatre, dance, and performance. May be repeated up to 5 time(s). Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 250—Modern Theatre (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Theatre of Europe and America, 1860-1940, with emphasis on the relationship of the dramas of the period to the physical circumstances under which they were produced. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 251—Scoring and Scripting in Performance (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Process of weaving together various performance elements brought into play by the artists in their respective disciplines. The "script" is the thread from which the artists' "scores" will layer and transform the "script" into performance for specific time, place, spectators. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 252—Performance: Concepts of Space, Place, and Time (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Innovative theories of creating performance spaces, establishing a sense of place, and communicating the concept of time explored through collaborative interaction. Research includes traditional principles, sitespecific spaces and consideration of various tempi from music and movement. Effective: 2016

DRA 253—Approaches to Collaboration (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Exploration of different approaches to collaboration among artists in different media and their influence on the creative process. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 254—Performing Identities/Personae (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Historical and contemporary theories of constructing stage identities. Discussion and project collaborations based on theories. Questions of identity related to ethnicity, gender or sexual orientation. Effective: 2016

DRA 255—Composition in the Arts (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Examine manner in which specific elements utilized by actors, dancers, directors, choreographers, and designers are combined or related to form a whole in space and time, as well as methods of sequencing used by each discipline to produce artistic products. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). Effective: 2016

DRA 256—Visual Language for Performance (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Restricted to graduate students. Exploration of different approaches and methods to the visual elements of performance. Focus on design and style for different media and genres, storytelling through visual elements of performance. Effective: 2017 Winter Quarter.

DRA 257—Interdisciplinary Seminar in Theatre, Dance and Performance (1) Project (Term Project)—1.5 hours; Seminar—1.5 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Restricted to students enrolled in the MFA in Dramatic Art; students taking the PhD in Performance Studies or the DE in Studies in Performance and Practice may apply to enroll. Interdisciplinary seminar for first and second year MFA students in Theatre and Dance. Topics range from current practice in dance, theatre, film and performance, to leading edge developments by outstanding practitioners in the field. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). Effective: 2017 Spring Quarter.

DRA 259—Topics in Contemporary Theatre and Performance (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Special topics designed to study in depth aspects of contemporary performance including performance analysis, cultural and historical context, modes of production, theoretical and political entailments, and issues of spectatorship (e.g., "Brecht and After," "British Theater," "Race and Gender in Performance." May be repeated up to 5 time(s). Effective: 2016

DRA 260—Approaches and Methodologies to Studies in Performance and Practice (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Admission to any graduate program in the University and consent of instructor. Preference to students enrolled in the Designated Emphasis in Studies in Performance and Practice. Instruction is offered a variety of disciplinary approaches and methodologies in Performance and Practice, with a focus is on crossdisciplinary learning and research. Usually offered each quarter. May be repeated for credit when content differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 265A—Performance Studies: Modes of Production (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Introduces students to the literature of performance production in a variety of media: theatre, dance, film, video, computer-based, looking at cultural, aesthetic, rhetorical and political theory. Usually offered in alternate years. Maybe repeated for credit with different topical matter/instructor. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) topic differs. Effective: 2016

DRA 265B—Peformance Studies: Signification and the Body (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Introduces students to analysis of the body in performance, drawing on theoretical models from several fields. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) when topic differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 265C—Performance Studies: Performance and Society (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Introduces students to the role of performance (broadly defined), in everyday life, sociopolitical negotiation, identity, social movements, the media, and the state. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) when topic differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 265D— Performance studies: Theory, History, Criticism (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Introduction to the theory, history and criticism, informing performance studies. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) when topic differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 280—Theatre Laboratory (1-12) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Advanced practice in acting, designing, directing, playwriting, and technical theatre. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 298—Group Study (1-5) Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 299—Individual Study (1-12) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Individual study. (S/U grading only.) Effective:

DRA 299D—Dissertation Research (1-12) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Dissertation research. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 396—Teaching Assitant Training Practicum (1-4) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 413—Stage Make-up (1) Lecture/Lab—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Approved for graduate degree credit. Lectures, demonstrations, and practical work in aspects of theatrical make-up. Effective: 1997

DRA 001—Theatre, Performance and Culture (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Not open to students who have completed DRA 001S. Introductory investigation of the nature of performance, moving from performance theory to consideration of various manifestations of performance including theatre, film and media, performance art, dance, sports, rituals, political and religious events, and other "occasions." GE credit: AH, DD, VL, WE. Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

DRA 001S—Theatre, Performance and Culture (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Not open to students who have completed DRA 001. Introductory investigation of the nature of performance, moving from performance theory to consideration of various manifestations of performance including theatre, film and media, performance art, dance, sports, rituals, political and religious events, and other "occasions." For Short Term Programs Abroad. Effective: 2005 Spring Quarter.

DRA 002—Acting: The Basics: History and Practice (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Introduction to the historical evolution of the actor – from ancient Greece & Asia to the Hollywood icon & postdramatic performer – and the practical foundations of acting for stage and screen. Onstage opportunities within lecture course structure. GE credit: AH, OL, VL. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

DRA 010—Introduction to Acting (4) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Fundamentals of movement, speech, theatre games, and improvisation. Selected reading and viewing of theatre productions. Intended for students not specializing in Dramatic Art. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2015 Spring Quarter.

DRA 011—Introduction to Presentation Skills (2) Lecture/Lab—4 hours. Class size limited to 20 students. Development of clear oral and physical communication skills that build confidence, presentational style and clarity for students whose command of English is at a basic level. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 014—Introduction to Contemporary Dance (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Introduction to basic issues and methods in contemporary dance. Focus on preparing the student for dancing and dance-making through basic techniques of improvisation and composition. Consideration of dance as a cultural practice. GE credit: VL. Effective: 2012 Fall Quarter.

DRA 020—Introduction to Dramatic Art (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Understanding and appreciation of both the distinctive and collaborative contributions of playwright, actor, director, and designer to the total work of dramatic art. Study of plays from the major periods of dramatic art in their cultural contexts. GE credit: AH, VL, WC, WE. Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

DRA 021A—Fundamentals of Acting (4) Laboratory—4 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Open to students planning to major in Theatre and Dance. Physical and psychological resources of the actor. Experience in individual and group contact and communication, theatre games, advanced improvisation, sound and movement dynamics. Viewing of theatre productions. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 024—Visual Aspects of Dramatic Art (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Understanding and appreciation of the visual aspects of dramatic art: theatre architecture, scenery, lighting, costume, and makeup. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective:

DRA 025—Technical Aspects of Dramatic Production (3) Lecture—3 hours. Technical principles of dramatic production emphasizing the three areas of scenic, costume and lighting studios. Subjects covered include basic tools, materials and equipment, production practices; and the interdisciplinary and collaborative nature of dramatic production. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 026—Performing Arts Production Management (3) Lecture—3 hours. Theoretical study of performing arts administration and backstage operations from audition through performance. Techniques of scheduling, production management, stage management, technical direction, audience control, box office, promotion, safety, accommodations for persons with disabilities and emergency procedures. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 030—Theatre Laboratory (1-5) Project (Term Project)—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Projects in acting, production, scene design, costuming, lighting, directing, and playwriting. Participation in departmental productions. May be repeated up to 11 unit(s). Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 040A—Beginning Modern Dance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Fundamentals of modern dance focusing primarily on the development of techniques and creative problem solving. Basic anatomy, dance terminology, and a general overview of modern dance history. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) Non-dance majors can only repeat the course once; dance majors may apply to the dance faculty advisor for permission to repeat more times; dance is a repetitive practice that involves constant reiteration and demands this for improvement and better understanding of the somatic and proprioceptive skills. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2017 Spring Quarter.

DRA 040B—Intermediate Modern Dance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 040A; or Consent of Instructor. Modern dance techniques. Basic anatomy, dance terminology and a general overview of modern dance history. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) For Dance majors, further repeats negotiated with faculty advisor in dance. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 041A—Beginning Jazz Dance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Fundamentals of jazz dance; includes warm-ups, dance techniques and combinations. Basic anatomy, dance terminology and general overview of jazz dance history. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). Effective: 2017 Spring Quarter.

DRA 041B—Intermediate Jazz Dance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 041A; or Consent of Instructor. Warm-ups, dance techniques and combinations at the intermediate level. Basic anatomy, dance terminology and a general overview of jazz styles of historically significant jazz choreographers and leading contemporary jazz choreographers. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) with consent of instructor. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 042A—Beginning Ballet (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Fundamentals of ballet, focusing on the development of technique through proper alignment, quality, and rhythm. Basic anatomy, ballet terminology, and dance history. May be repeated for credit with consent of instructor. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016

DRA 042B—Intermediate Ballet (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 042A; or Consent of Instructor. Barre and center work at the intermediate level. Development and refinement of technique through proper alignment, rhythmic, and qualitative understanding. Anatomy, ballet terminology, and dance history. May be repeated for credit with consent of instructor. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 043A—Contact Improvisation Dance (2) Lecture/Lab—4 hours. Fundamentals of contact improvisation and its applications to all forms of dance, performance, sports, physical safety and health. Solo improvisation, safety, communication, alignment, basic lifting and weight-sharing, intuition, developing relaxed readiness and personal expression. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

DRA 043B—Intermediate Contact Improvisation (2) Lecture/Lab—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 043A; or Consent of Instructor. Building on the fundamentals. Reviewing basics, extended improvising, skillfully working with partners of different sizes and abilities, advanced lifting, advanced safety practices, embracing risk and disorientation, subtle nuances of communication. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). GE credit: AH, VL. Effective:

DRA 044A—Beginning Hip Hop Dance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Fundamentals of Hip Hop dance focusing on developing a fluid movement vocabulary, facility in body isolations, intricate rhythmic patterning, quick shifts of weight and mastering dance combinations. Discussions on Hip Hop dance history, styles and terminology. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). Effective: 2002 Fall Quarter.

DRA 044B—Intermediate Hip Hop Dance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 044A; or Consent of Instructor. Expansion of Hip Hop dance vocabulary by focusing on mastering body isolations and intricate rhythmic techniques, complex dance combinations, advanced across the floor sequences. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). Effective: 2002 Fall Quarter.

DRA 055—Contemporary Local, National and Global Theatre, Dance and Performance (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Introduction a range of contemporary theatre, dance and performance in local, national and international settings. Training in critical approaches to and aesthetic appreciation of these forms. Emphasis varies based on instructor. GE credit: AH, DD, VL, WC. Effective: 2015 Fall Quarter.

DRA 056A—History of Theatre and Dance I: Myth, Magic and Madness (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Exploration of aesthetic movements in various disciplines of theatre and dance from the origins to 1550. Examination of Greek, Roman, Sanskrit, Kathakali, Chinese, Japanese, Mesoamerican, Medieval European, and Indigenous theatre and dance including oral, ritual and shamanic performance. Offered once a year. GE credit: AH, VL, WC. Effective: 2014 Fall

DRA 056B—History of Theatre and Dance II: Romance, Revenge and Rebellion (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Exploration of aesthetic movements in various disciplines of theatre and dance from 1550 to 1850. Examination of genres related to romance, revenge and rebellion using European, North and South American, and Asian examples. Offered once a year. GE credit: AH, VL, WC. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

DRA 056C—History of Theatre and Dance III: Sex, Society and the State (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Exploration of aesthetic movements in various disciplines of theatre and dance from 1850-1968. Examination of melodrama, popular theatre, naturalism, psychological realism, and the avant-garde using European, North and South American, Asian, and African examples. Offered once a year. GE credit: AH, VL, WC. Effective: 2015 Spring Quarter.

DRA 092—Internship in Dramatic Art (1-12) Variable—1-12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of instructor and department chairperson. Restricted to lower division students with less than 84 units completed. Internship outside the Department of Theatre and Dance enabling students to practice their skills. May be repeated up to 12 unit(s). (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2006 Fall Quarter.

DRA 098—Directed Group Study (1-5) Primarily for lower division students. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 099—Special Study for Undergraduates (1-5) (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 111—Advanced Presentation Skills (2) Lecture/Lab—4 hours. Class size limited 20 students. Development of clear oral and physical communication skills that build confidence, presentational style and clarity for students whose command of English is at a competent to fluent level. GE credit: OL. Effective: 2013 Spring

DRA 111S—Representation and Identity in Culture and Cinema (4) Film Viewing—4 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Issues of personal and collective identity via study of film narratives from different cultures. Reflection of dominant cultural identities in film. Taught in Australia. Effective: 2006 Spring Quarter.

DRA 114—Theatre on Film (4) Film Viewing—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Study of six/eight plays on film, using mixed casts and raising issues of diversity. Focus: sociohistorical context for production and reception, interpretation and analysis of topics (gender, ethnicity, age, politics, philosophy), and filming, screenwriting, design, and acting/directing for film. GE credit: AH, SS, VL. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 115—Advanced Study of Major Film Makers (4) Film Viewing—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Analysis of the contribution of some outstanding film creators. Study of diverse aesthetic theories of the cinema and their application to selected films. May be repeated for credit when different film creator studied, or studied with a different methodological approach. GE credit: VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 116—Design on Screen (4) Film Viewing—3 hours; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Analysis of the contribution of outstanding designers for cinema, television and filmed entertainment. Study of diverse aesthetic theories of production design and art direction, costume design, or cinematography. Introductory principles and practice, history. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) when topic differs. (CTS 116.) GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

DRA 120—Intermediate Acting/Gateway: The Actor's Toolkit (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 021A; or Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Implementation of acting tools drawn predominantly from Stanislavsky’s ‘system’. Gateway into the Advanced Acting courses. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 121A—Advanced Acting: Scene Study and Script Analysis (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 120; and Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Indepth study, analysis and performance of texts from different eras, genres and styles. Implementation of tools to undertake independent preparation of character creation. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s) Since acting requires repetition to habituate the body and imagination to new practices, this course may be taken twice. New scripts and scenes must be undertaken in the repetition. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 121B—Advanced Acting: Rehearsal Processes and Practices (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 120; and Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Development of rehearsal practice and etiquette, using a variety of scenes from different eras and genres. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s) The course has been established to enable visiting artists in residence to undertake the instruction, as well as faculty. Therefore, this course may be taken twice, as students will be exposed to different professional practitioners’ working processes. New etudes, scripts and scenes must be undertaken in the repetition. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2013

DRA 121C—Advanced Acting: Character and Style (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 120; and Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Study of psycho-physical techniques to create characters with an emphasis on non-realistic styles. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s) Since acting requires repetition to habituate the body and imagination to new practices, this course may be taken twice. New scripts and scenes must be undertaken in the repetition. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2012 Fall Quarter.

DRA 122A—Advanced Acting: Devising and Collaboration (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 120; and Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Study and practice of various devising techniques, to collaborate on and produce a series of short etudes and dramatic scenes/short plays. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s) Since acting requires repetition to habituate the body and imagination to new practices, this course may be taken twice. New scripts and scenes must be undertaken in the repetition. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2016

DRA 122B—Advanced Acting: Shakespeare and His Contemporaries (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 120; and Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Study and performance of classical texts (monologues and dialogues), with a focus on Shakespeare and the Elizabethan world view. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s) Since acting requires repetition to habituate the body and imagination to new practices, this course may be taken twice. New monologues and scenes must be undertaken in the repetition. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2013

DRA 122C—Advanced Acting: Special Topics in Acting (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 120; and Consent of Instructor. Restricted to Theatre and Dance majors; limited enrollment. Intensive study and practical exploration of a specialized area; for example, World Theatre, Social Theatre, Physical Theatre, Musical Theatre, the Ancient Greeks, etc. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s). GE credit: AH, OL, VL. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 124A—Principles of Theatrical Design: Scenery (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Pass One restricted to Theatre and Dance majors. Scene design processes, working drawings, sketching techniques, scale models, methods and materials of scenery construction. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

DRA 124B—Principles of Theatrical Design: Scenery (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Pass One restricted to Theatre and Dance majors. Analysis of plays in terms of scene design, elements of design, execution of designs for modern and period plays. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

DRA 124C—Principles of Theatrical Design: Lighting (4) Lecture/Lab—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Pass One restricted to Theatre and Dance majors. Theories of lighting the stage, equipment and control systems, execution of lighting plots. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

DRA 124D—Principles of Theatrical Design: Costume (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 024; Consent of Instructor. Pass one restricted to Theatre and Dance majors. Source materials for theatrical costuming, selecting fabrics, elements of design, analysis of plays in terms of costume design, execution of designs for modern and period plays. GE credit: AH, OL, VL. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

DRA 124E—Costume Design for Film (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Pass One restricted to Theatre and Dance majors. Theory and practice of the art and business of film costume design. Script analysis, costume research, developing design concepts, budgeting, and current production practices and methods. Execution of designs for period and contemporary films. Viewing of current films. (CTS 124E.) GE credit: AH, OL, VL. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

DRA 125—Scenic Painting: Studio (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—2 hours; Studio—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): DRA 024 or DRA 028; or Consent of Instructor. upper division standing in Theatre and Dance, Art Studio, or Design. Scene painting techniques, practices and materials including color mixing and matching, wood graining, faux painting techniques, glazing, creating foliage, stone and brick. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) with consent of instructor. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 126—Principles of Performing Arts Stage Management (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Stage management principles for theatre, dance, musical theatre, music, and concerts. The dynamical role of the stage manager in the performing arts, upper-management team. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

DRA 127A—Principles of Directing (4) Laboratory—4 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Director's creative approach to the play and to its staging. GE credit: VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 127B—Principles of Directing (4) Laboratory—4 hours; Lecture—2 hours; Rehearsal. Prerequisite(s): DRA 127A; or Consent of Instructor. Director's creative approach to the actor. GE credit: VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 128—Principles of Theatre Sound (3) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Fundamentals of sound, sound equipment, and sound design as used in modern theatre and other performance venues. Assembly, set-up, and operation of basic theatre sound reinforcement system, recording system, and theatrical playback system. Effective: 2004 Winter Quarter.

DRA 130—Approaches to Theatrical Design: Practice and Theory (4) Seminar—2 hours; Studio—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 124A or DRA 124B or DRA 124C or DRA 124D or DRA 124E; Upper division standing in Theatre and Dance, Art Studio or Design; or consent of instructor. Advanced design study in specific areas including but not limited to: research, design styles and concepts, new materials and techniques, scenery, lighting, costume, makeup, photography, projections, computer technology, spectacle and special effects, and alternative theatre forms and genres. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) when topic differs; when instructor differs. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 135—Voice in Performance (2) Performance Instruction—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 021B; or Consent of Instructor. Progression of exercises to free, develop and strengthen the voice, as a human and then as an actor's instrument with emphasis on how the voice works, to freeing the channel for sound, to interpersonal communication. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). Effective: 2009 Fall Quarter.

DRA 140A—Dance Composition (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 040A or DRA 041A or DRA 042A; or Consent of Instructor. Introduction to the craft of choreography. Compose phrases and present movement studies based on the elements of choreography: motivation, space, time, force/energy. GE credit: VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 140B—Dance Composition (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 140A Continuation of the study of choreography, focusing on the development of group choreography: duets, trios, quartets and group work, form, and accompaniment. Effective: 1999 Spring Quarter.

DRA 140C—Dance Composition (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 140A; DRA 140B Continuation of study of choreography focusing on sequencing movements for groups. The relation between dance and allied mediums of music, sets, costumes and lighting. Students conceptualize a choreographic issue and explore it through creation of short dance studies. Effective: 1999 Spring Quarter.

DRA 141—Introduction to the Fundamentals of Movement (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Introduction to fundamentals of movement that combines intellectual and kinesthetic understanding of the body's skeletal and muscular systems. Explorations based on theories of various body mind specialists including Laban, Feldenkrais, Bartenieff and Sweigard as well as the eastern discipline of Yoga. GE credit: VL. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

DRA 142—History of Modern Dance (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Modern Dance tradition, focusing on its theorizations of individual and social identity. Students will write and choreograph analyses of principle dances in this tradition. GE credit: AH, VL, WE. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

DRA 143—Dance and Movement Studio (1-4) Discussion/Laboratory—2-8 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Special studies in dance and movement such as African, Balinese, Baroque, Chinese, European, and stage combat. Offered as needed for stage productions. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s). GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 144—Introduction to Traditional Chinese Physical Culture (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Traditional Chinese Wushu practices, explored through practical work in dance laboratory conditions. Integration of practice with conceptual analysis; contemporary social, educational and artistic applications. GE credit: AH, SS. Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

DRA 144A—Introduction to Traditional Chinese Embodied Culture (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Traditional Chinese Wushu practices, explored through practical work in dance laboratory conditions. Integration of practice with conceptual analysis; contemporary social, educational and artistic applications. GE credit: AH, DD, SS, VL, WC. Effective: 2014 Winter

DRA 144B—Traditional Chinese Physical Culture (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 144A Traditional Chinese Wushu practices, explored through practical work in dance laboratory conditions. Integration of practice with conceptual analysis; contemporary social, educational and artistic applications. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) when content and instructor varies and if student progression is required. GE credit: AH, DD, SS, VL, WC. Effective: 2014 Winter Quarter.

DRA 144C—Daoist Philosophy in Traditional Chinese Movement Culture (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 144B Daoist practices of movement and their relation to daoist philosophy, explored through work in dance laboratory conditions. Integration of practice with conceptual analysis, and critical philosophy around values and ethical action. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) when content or instructor varies and if student progression is required. GE credit: AH, DD, VL, WC. Effective: 2014 Winter Quarter.

DRA 145—Directed Choreography Projects (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 140A; DRA 140B; DRA 140C; or Consent of Instructor. Conceptualization, creation, casting, rehearsing, and concert presentation of complete dances, with students integrating elements of stagecraft and directing the on-stage rehearsals. Effective: 1999

DRA 146A—Professional Track Modern Dance I (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Professionally oriented performance training. Rigorous, consistent training regimen based on traditional modern dance technique. Breath and voice, skeletal and muscular placement, moving from the spine, contraction technique, movement intention. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). GE credit: VL. Effective: 2016 Spring

DRA 146B—Professional Track Modern Dance II (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 146A; and Consent of Instructor. Body and space relationships in solos, duets and group work; stylistic variations of Graham technique; works of Paul Taylor. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). GE credit: VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 146C—Professional Track Modern Dance III (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 146A; DRA 146B; and Consent of Instructor. Continuation of course 146B. Time as a theatrical device, sustaining movement and nonmovement, phrasing, musicality. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). GE credit: VL. Effective: 2017

DRA 150—American Theatre and Drama (4) Lecture—4 hours. The history of the theatre from Colonial times to the present. Readings of selected plays. GE credit: ACGH, AH, DD, VL, WE. Effective: 2014 Winter Quarter.

DRA 151S—Australian Performance and Culture (4) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Australian performance and theatre practices as a product of its culture of origin. Relationships between art and society. Taught in Australia. Effective: 2006 Spring Quarter.

DRA 154—Asian Theatre and Drama: Contexts and Forms (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Selected Asian plays and performance forms in their cultural and artistic contexts; myth, ritual and the theatre; performance training, visual presentation of the text; political theatre; intercultural performance-the fusion of Asian and Western traditions. GE credit: AH, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 155—Representing Race in Performance (4) Lecture—4 hours. Representation and performance of "race" in American culture featuring different sub-headings such as "African American Theatre" or "Asian-Americans on Stage." May be repeated up to 1 time(s) when topic differs. GE credit: AH, DD, WE. Effective: 2012 Spring Quarter.

DRA 155B—Ancient and Contemporary Greek Theatre and Dance (6) Discussion/Laboratory—10 hours; Performance Instruction—10 hours; Seminar—13 hours. Origins of early theatres and the first actors, playwrights and dancers and their powerful influence on western performance and thought up to present day. Offered in Greece. GE credit: AH. Effective:

DRA 156AN—Performance Analysis (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Performance on the stage, in the street, in everyday life, ritual, and in politics. Satire, irony, creative protest and performance. Social movements, the state, and performance as tactical intervention. GE credit: AH, DD, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 156C—Modern Aesthetic Movements in Performance (4) Discussion—1 hour; Discussion/Laboratory—3 hours. Important movements in performance, especially theatre and dance, from realism to the present. Primary emphasis on Western traditions though others may be studied. GE credit: AH, WE. Effective: 2017 Spring Quarter.

DRA 156D—Theatre History Through Shakespeare (4) Extensive Writing; Lecture—4 hours. Shakespeare's plays, theatre history, and theatre today. European contexts from 1590-2004 and international theatre from 20th century. Stagecraft, different media (print, stage, film), social/political environments, design, and cultural change (gender, sexuality and ethnicity). May be repeated up to 1 time(s). GE credit: AH, OL, WC, WE. Effective: 2014 Spring Quarter.

DRA 158—Performance Studies Undergraduate Seminar (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. DRA 156AN recommended. Focused inquiry into a particular genre, period, movement, artist, or theme in performance. Philosophical and aesthetic issues as well as historical and cultural performance contexts. In-depth research projects in relationship to the subject of inquiry. May be repeated for credit. GE credit: WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 159—Contemporary Experimental Performance, Theatre and Drama (4) Extensive Writing; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Evaluation and examination of the "New Theatre;" its experimental and innovative nature since the 1960s. Dance, film, stage, performance art and public acts of a performative nature. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) if content differs. GE credit: AH, DD, VL, WC, WE. Effective: 2014 Spring Quarter.

DRA 159S—Contemporary Experimental Performance, Theatre and Drama (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Evaluation and examination of the "New Theatre;" its experimental and innovative nature since the 1960s. Dance, film, stage, performance art and public acts of a performative nature. May be repeated up to 12 unit(s) if instructor or content varies. GE credit: AH, WE. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

DRA 160A—Principles of Playwriting (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Analysis of dramatic structure; preparation of scenarios; the composition of plays. GE credit: WE. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

DRA 160B—Principles of Playwriting (4) Lecture—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 160A; and Consent of Instructor. Analysis of dramatic structure; preparation of scenarios; the composition of plays. GE credit: WE. Effective: 2016 Spring

DRA 170—Media Theatre (4) Lecture—1 hour; Performance Instruction—1 hour; Rehearsal—2 hours. New media and application of in theatre devising and performance. Emphasis on collaborative process in relationship to integration of emerging technologies and formation of new theatrical works. Development of collaborative performance through lecture, demonstration, improvisation and experimentation. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2017 Spring Quarter.

DRA 174—Acting for Camera (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Analysis and practice of acting skills required for camera work and digital media. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s) when instructor differs. (CTS 174.) Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 175—Small Scale Film Production (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Lecture and intensive workshop teaching small-scale film production. Appointments as a(n) director, director of photography, actor, writer, lighting designer, sound designer and other critical positions are used to produce and submit a short film to a film festival. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). (TCS 175.) Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

DRA 180—Theatre Laboratory (1-5) Variable—1-5 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Projects in acting, production, scene design, costuming, lighting, directing, and playwriting. Participation in departmental productions. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 180A—Theatre Laboratory: Performance (1-5) Rehearsal—12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Rehearsal and performance of a production directed or choreographed by visiting Granada Artists-in-Residence and/or faculty, and/or the UG Edge Festival. May be repeated for credit Since each production involves different scripts, directions, challenges of rehearsal practices and performance processes, it is possible for students to appear in a variety of productions in the course of their education. Admission by audition. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 180B—Theatre Laboratory: Design (1-4) Variable—1-4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Design-related participation in theatre and dance productions involves research, creation and implementation of design concept in collaboration with the director and other members of the production team. May be repeated for credit Because each theatrical piece is conceived and produced afresh with new source material, scripts, and production style the challenges and assignments for the designers will be new each and every time they design a show. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 180C—Theatre Laboratory: Management, Directing, other Production Team (1-5) Variable—3-15 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Participation in theatre and dance production in management, direction, choreography, dramaturgy, writing or other production related role; research, creation and implementation of production concept in collaboration with members of the production team and cast. May be repeated up to 5 unit(s) May repeat multiple times but only for a total of five units. Permission to repeat is required from the Dramatic Art department. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

DRA 180D—Theatre Laboratory: Crew (2-4) Laboratory—6-12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Participation in theatre and dance productions as backstage running crew which will involve skill development, rehearsal and execution of performance. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 180E—Theatre Laboratory: Scenic (1-4) Laboratory—3-12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Practical experience working on scenery and properties for theatre and dance department productions. Study and execution of basic scenery and prop engineering, construction, painting, rigging. Study of techniques, materials, tools, and equipment use. Skill development, professional etiquette. Safety training requirement. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 180F—Theatre Laboratory: Costume (1-4) Laboratory—3-12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Practical experience working on costumes for theatre and dance department productions. Study and execution of basic costume construction techniques and materials, tools, and equipment use. Skills development, professional etiquette. Safety training requirement. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 180G—Theatre Laboratory: Lighting/Sound/Projection (1-4) Laboratory—3-12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Practical experience working on lighting, sound or projections for theatre and dance department productions. Study and execution of basic techniques, materials, tools, and equipment use. Skill development, professional etiquette. Safety training requirement. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 192—Internships in Theatre and Dance (1-12) Internship—3-36 hours. Theatre production experience in creative, technical or management areas. Experience in galleries, performance sites, or theatre/dance/physical theatre companies. May be repeated up to 12 unit(s). Not open to students who have completed DRA 192S. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2004 Fall Quarter.

DRA 192S—Internships in Theatre and Dance (1-12) Internship—3-36 hours. Theatre production experience in creative, technical or management areas. Experience in galleries, performance sites, or theatre/dance/physical theatre companies. This course is offered in Sydney, Australia. May be repeated up to 12 unit(s). Not open to students who have completed DRA 192. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2005 Spring Quarter.

DRA 194HA—Special Study for Honors Students (3) Independent Study—9 hours. Prerequisite(s): Qualification for Letters and Science Honors Program and admission to Theatre and Dance Senior Honors Program. Preparation and presentation of a culminating project, under the supervision of an instructor, in one of the creative or scholarly areas of Theatre and Dance. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 194HB—Special Study for Honors Students (3) Independent Study—9 hours. Prerequisite(s): Qualification for Letters and Science Honors Program and admission to Theatre and Dance Senior Honors Program. Preparation and presentation of a culminating project, under the supervision of an instructor, in one of the creative or scholarly areas of Theatre and Dance. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 195—Senior Capstone Experience (2) Lecture/Discussion—1 hour; Project (Term Project). Open to Theatre and Dance Majors who have completed 135 or more units. Capstone experience for majors. Examination, reflection and synthesis on development. Discussion of professional development and translatable skills. Individual project and development of portfolio. (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: AH, WE. Effective:

DRA 197T—Tutoring in Dramatic Art (1-5) Tutorial—1-5 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Upper division or graduate standing with major in Theatre and Dance; consent of department chairperson. Leading of small voluntary groups affiliated with one of the department's regular courses. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 198—Directed Group Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

DRA 199—Special Study for Advanced Undergraduates (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

DRA 200—Methods and Materials in Theatre Research (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Essential research tools in theatre and related fields; bibliographies, primary sources; methods of evaluating and presenting evidence; delineating research areas in the field. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 211—Advanced Voice and Speech (3) Laboratory—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Open only to Dramatic Arts Students and Ph.D. students with an emphasis in Performance and Theatre. Review a progression of exercises to free, develop and strengthen the voice, first as a human instrument, and then as an actor's instrument using various texts such as Shakespeare, Ibsen and contemporary plays. Required for the M.F.A. degree in Acting. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 212—Advanced Stage Movement (3) Laboratory—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Graduate standing in the MFA Program. Open to advanced undergraduates by consent of instructor. Application of modes of exploration, breath placement, and the use of imagery as well as Laban's effort/shape system as a method of analysis in classic and modern plays. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2016 Spring

DRA 221—Special Problems in Advanced Acting (4) Laboratory—4 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Advanced acting problems arising from differences in the type and style of plays selected from Greece to the present. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 224A—Seminar in Theatrical Design: Ancient Worlds--Early 17th Century (4) Project (Term Project)—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group study while focusing primarily on one discipline: scenic, costume or lighting design. Periods covered: Greek, Medieval, Renaissance, Shakespearean, Jacobean, early 17th century. Design projects include script analysis, research of period style, fashion, character development, developing design concepts, presentation skills. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 224B—Seminar in Theatrical Design: Mid 17th Century to 1900 (4) Project (Term Project)—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group study focusing primarily on one discipline: scenic, costume or lighting design. Periods covered: Cavalier, Restoration 18th century opera and ballet, 19th century drama. Design projects include script analysis, research of period style, fashion, character development, developing design concepts,presentation skills. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 224C—Seminar in Theatrical Design: the 20th Century (4) Project (Term Project)—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group study focusing primarily on one discipline-scenic, costume or lighting design. 20th century genres covered: Realism, Brecht, Musicals, Contemporary Dance, short narrative film. Design projects include script analysis, research of period style, fashion, character development, developing design concepts, presentation skills. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 224D—Seminar in Theatrical Design: Contemporary Concepts (4) Project (Term Project)—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group study focusing primarily on one discipline: scenic, costume or lighting design. Emphasis on contemporary design concepts for new works and classics: Shakespeare, modern dance, concept plays and musicals. Script and character analysis for design in performance, research, design projects. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 224E—Seminar in Theatrical Design: Advanced Concepts (4) Project (Term Project)—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group study focusing primarily on one discipline: scenic, costume or lighting design. Emphasis on special issues in contemporary design concepts for new works and classics. Script and character analysis for design in performance, research, design projects. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 225—Performance Design Studio: Techniques and Media (2) Studio—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 224A (can be concurrent) or DRA 224B (can be concurrent) or DRA 224C (can be concurrent) or DRA 224D (can be concurrent) or DRA 224E (can be concurrent); Consent of Instructor. Exploration and development of techniques and skills in the performance design process. Drafting, model building, drawing, painting and rendering, costume drawing, color theory, lighting techniques, design portfolio preparation and presentation. May be repeated up to 5 time(s). Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 228—Seminar in Directing Theory: Non-Realism (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Modern directing theory as it applies to non-realistic theatre; development of directorial concepts for production of selected non-realistic plays-Greek to the present; emphasis on textual analysis. Effective: 2016 Spring

DRA 229—Special Problems in Directing (4) Laboratory—2 hours; Rehearsal—4 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Projects in directing scenes selected from plays from ancient Greece to the present. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Quarter.

DRA 230—Advanced Problems in Choreography and Performance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Explores contemporary issues of choreography and performance in depth and how those issues pertain to performance work. Focus will include contemporary thought on representation, legibility, new forms, and cultural attitudes. May be repeated up to 6 time(s). Effective: 2012 Winter Quarter.

DRA 244—Critical Approaches to Traditional Systems of Body Movement (4) Discussion/Laboratory—6 hours; Project (Term Project); Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Introduction to traditional systems for body movement, development of critical approaches to them, and experiments in how they inform training and practice in theatre, dance, and performance. May be repeated up to 5 time(s). Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 250—Modern Theatre (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Theatre of Europe and America, 1860-1940, with emphasis on the relationship of the dramas of the period to the physical circumstances under which they were produced. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 251—Scoring and Scripting in Performance (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Process of weaving together various performance elements brought into play by the artists in their respective disciplines. The "script" is the thread from which the artists' "scores" will layer and transform the "script" into performance for specific time, place, spectators. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 252—Performance: Concepts of Space, Place, and Time (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Innovative theories of creating performance spaces, establishing a sense of place, and communicating the concept of time explored through collaborative interaction. Research includes traditional principles, sitespecific spaces and consideration of various tempi from music and movement. Effective: 2016

DRA 253—Approaches to Collaboration (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Exploration of different approaches to collaboration among artists in different media and their influence on the creative process. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 254—Performing Identities/Personae (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Historical and contemporary theories of constructing stage identities. Discussion and project collaborations based on theories. Questions of identity related to ethnicity, gender or sexual orientation. Effective: 2016

DRA 255—Composition in the Arts (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Examine manner in which specific elements utilized by actors, dancers, directors, choreographers, and designers are combined or related to form a whole in space and time, as well as methods of sequencing used by each discipline to produce artistic products. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). Effective: 2016

DRA 256—Visual Language for Performance (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Restricted to graduate students. Exploration of different approaches and methods to the visual elements of performance. Focus on design and style for different media and genres, storytelling through visual elements of performance. Effective: 2017 Winter Quarter.

DRA 257—Interdisciplinary Seminar in Theatre, Dance and Performance (1) Project (Term Project)—1.5 hours; Seminar—1.5 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Restricted to students enrolled in the MFA in Dramatic Art; students taking the PhD in Performance Studies or the DE in Studies in Performance and Practice may apply to enroll. Interdisciplinary seminar for first and second year MFA students in Theatre and Dance. Topics range from current practice in dance, theatre, film and performance, to leading edge developments by outstanding practitioners in the field. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). Effective: 2017 Spring Quarter.

DRA 259—Topics in Contemporary Theatre and Performance (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Special topics designed to study in depth aspects of contemporary performance including performance analysis, cultural and historical context, modes of production, theoretical and political entailments, and issues of spectatorship (e.g., "Brecht and After," "British Theater," "Race and Gender in Performance." May be repeated up to 5 time(s). Effective: 2016

DRA 260—Approaches and Methodologies to Studies in Performance and Practice (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Admission to any graduate program in the University and consent of instructor. Preference to students enrolled in the Designated Emphasis in Studies in Performance and Practice. Instruction is offered a variety of disciplinary approaches and methodologies in Performance and Practice, with a focus is on crossdisciplinary learning and research. Usually offered each quarter. May be repeated for credit when content differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 265A—Performance Studies: Modes of Production (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Introduces students to the literature of performance production in a variety of media: theatre, dance, film, video, computer-based, looking at cultural, aesthetic, rhetorical and political theory. Usually offered in alternate years. Maybe repeated for credit with different topical matter/instructor. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) topic differs. Effective: 2016

DRA 265B—Peformance Studies: Signification and the Body (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Introduces students to analysis of the body in performance, drawing on theoretical models from several fields. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) when topic differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 265C—Performance Studies: Performance and Society (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Introduces students to the role of performance (broadly defined), in everyday life, sociopolitical negotiation, identity, social movements, the media, and the state. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) when topic differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 265D— Performance studies: Theory, History, Criticism (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Introduction to the theory, history and criticism, informing performance studies. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) when topic differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 280—Theatre Laboratory (1-12) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Advanced practice in acting, designing, directing, playwriting, and technical theatre. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 298—Group Study (1-5) Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 299—Individual Study (1-12) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Individual study. (S/U grading only.) Effective:

DRA 299D—Dissertation Research (1-12) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Dissertation research. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 396—Teaching Assitant Training Practicum (1-4) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 413—Stage Make-up (1) Lecture/Lab—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Approved for graduate degree credit. Lectures, demonstrations, and practical work in aspects of theatrical make-up. Effective: 1997

DRA 001—Theatre, Performance and Culture (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Not open to students who have completed DRA 001S. Introductory investigation of the nature of performance, moving from performance theory to consideration of various manifestations of performance including theatre, film and media, performance art, dance, sports, rituals, political and religious events, and other "occasions." GE credit: AH, DD, VL, WE. Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

DRA 001S—Theatre, Performance and Culture (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Not open to students who have completed DRA 001. Introductory investigation of the nature of performance, moving from performance theory to consideration of various manifestations of performance including theatre, film and media, performance art, dance, sports, rituals, political and religious events, and other "occasions." For Short Term Programs Abroad. Effective: 2005 Spring Quarter.

DRA 002—Acting: The Basics: History and Practice (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Introduction to the historical evolution of the actor – from ancient Greece & Asia to the Hollywood icon & postdramatic performer – and the practical foundations of acting for stage and screen. Onstage opportunities within lecture course structure. GE credit: AH, OL, VL. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

DRA 010—Introduction to Acting (4) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Fundamentals of movement, speech, theatre games, and improvisation. Selected reading and viewing of theatre productions. Intended for students not specializing in Dramatic Art. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2015 Spring Quarter.

DRA 011—Introduction to Presentation Skills (2) Lecture/Lab—4 hours. Class size limited to 20 students. Development of clear oral and physical communication skills that build confidence, presentational style and clarity for students whose command of English is at a basic level. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 014—Introduction to Contemporary Dance (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Introduction to basic issues and methods in contemporary dance. Focus on preparing the student for dancing and dance-making through basic techniques of improvisation and composition. Consideration of dance as a cultural practice. GE credit: VL. Effective: 2012 Fall Quarter.

DRA 020—Introduction to Dramatic Art (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Understanding and appreciation of both the distinctive and collaborative contributions of playwright, actor, director, and designer to the total work of dramatic art. Study of plays from the major periods of dramatic art in their cultural contexts. GE credit: AH, VL, WC, WE. Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

DRA 021A—Fundamentals of Acting (4) Laboratory—4 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Open to students planning to major in Theatre and Dance. Physical and psychological resources of the actor. Experience in individual and group contact and communication, theatre games, advanced improvisation, sound and movement dynamics. Viewing of theatre productions. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 024—Visual Aspects of Dramatic Art (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Understanding and appreciation of the visual aspects of dramatic art: theatre architecture, scenery, lighting, costume, and makeup. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective:

DRA 025—Technical Aspects of Dramatic Production (3) Lecture—3 hours. Technical principles of dramatic production emphasizing the three areas of scenic, costume and lighting studios. Subjects covered include basic tools, materials and equipment, production practices; and the interdisciplinary and collaborative nature of dramatic production. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 026—Performing Arts Production Management (3) Lecture—3 hours. Theoretical study of performing arts administration and backstage operations from audition through performance. Techniques of scheduling, production management, stage management, technical direction, audience control, box office, promotion, safety, accommodations for persons with disabilities and emergency procedures. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 030—Theatre Laboratory (1-5) Project (Term Project)—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Projects in acting, production, scene design, costuming, lighting, directing, and playwriting. Participation in departmental productions. May be repeated up to 11 unit(s). Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 040A—Beginning Modern Dance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Fundamentals of modern dance focusing primarily on the development of techniques and creative problem solving. Basic anatomy, dance terminology, and a general overview of modern dance history. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) Non-dance majors can only repeat the course once; dance majors may apply to the dance faculty advisor for permission to repeat more times; dance is a repetitive practice that involves constant reiteration and demands this for improvement and better understanding of the somatic and proprioceptive skills. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2017 Spring Quarter.

DRA 040B—Intermediate Modern Dance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 040A; or Consent of Instructor. Modern dance techniques. Basic anatomy, dance terminology and a general overview of modern dance history. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) For Dance majors, further repeats negotiated with faculty advisor in dance. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 041A—Beginning Jazz Dance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Fundamentals of jazz dance; includes warm-ups, dance techniques and combinations. Basic anatomy, dance terminology and general overview of jazz dance history. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). Effective: 2017 Spring Quarter.

DRA 041B—Intermediate Jazz Dance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 041A; or Consent of Instructor. Warm-ups, dance techniques and combinations at the intermediate level. Basic anatomy, dance terminology and a general overview of jazz styles of historically significant jazz choreographers and leading contemporary jazz choreographers. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) with consent of instructor. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 042A—Beginning Ballet (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Fundamentals of ballet, focusing on the development of technique through proper alignment, quality, and rhythm. Basic anatomy, ballet terminology, and dance history. May be repeated for credit with consent of instructor. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016

DRA 042B—Intermediate Ballet (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 042A; or Consent of Instructor. Barre and center work at the intermediate level. Development and refinement of technique through proper alignment, rhythmic, and qualitative understanding. Anatomy, ballet terminology, and dance history. May be repeated for credit with consent of instructor. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 043A—Contact Improvisation Dance (2) Lecture/Lab—4 hours. Fundamentals of contact improvisation and its applications to all forms of dance, performance, sports, physical safety and health. Solo improvisation, safety, communication, alignment, basic lifting and weight-sharing, intuition, developing relaxed readiness and personal expression. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

DRA 043B—Intermediate Contact Improvisation (2) Lecture/Lab—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 043A; or Consent of Instructor. Building on the fundamentals. Reviewing basics, extended improvising, skillfully working with partners of different sizes and abilities, advanced lifting, advanced safety practices, embracing risk and disorientation, subtle nuances of communication. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). GE credit: AH, VL. Effective:

DRA 044A—Beginning Hip Hop Dance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Fundamentals of Hip Hop dance focusing on developing a fluid movement vocabulary, facility in body isolations, intricate rhythmic patterning, quick shifts of weight and mastering dance combinations. Discussions on Hip Hop dance history, styles and terminology. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). Effective: 2002 Fall Quarter.

DRA 044B—Intermediate Hip Hop Dance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 044A; or Consent of Instructor. Expansion of Hip Hop dance vocabulary by focusing on mastering body isolations and intricate rhythmic techniques, complex dance combinations, advanced across the floor sequences. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). Effective: 2002 Fall Quarter.

DRA 055—Contemporary Local, National and Global Theatre, Dance and Performance (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Introduction a range of contemporary theatre, dance and performance in local, national and international settings. Training in critical approaches to and aesthetic appreciation of these forms. Emphasis varies based on instructor. GE credit: AH, DD, VL, WC. Effective: 2015 Fall Quarter.

DRA 056A—History of Theatre and Dance I: Myth, Magic and Madness (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Exploration of aesthetic movements in various disciplines of theatre and dance from the origins to 1550. Examination of Greek, Roman, Sanskrit, Kathakali, Chinese, Japanese, Mesoamerican, Medieval European, and Indigenous theatre and dance including oral, ritual and shamanic performance. Offered once a year. GE credit: AH, VL, WC. Effective: 2014 Fall

DRA 056B—History of Theatre and Dance II: Romance, Revenge and Rebellion (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Exploration of aesthetic movements in various disciplines of theatre and dance from 1550 to 1850. Examination of genres related to romance, revenge and rebellion using European, North and South American, and Asian examples. Offered once a year. GE credit: AH, VL, WC. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

DRA 056C—History of Theatre and Dance III: Sex, Society and the State (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Exploration of aesthetic movements in various disciplines of theatre and dance from 1850-1968. Examination of melodrama, popular theatre, naturalism, psychological realism, and the avant-garde using European, North and South American, Asian, and African examples. Offered once a year. GE credit: AH, VL, WC. Effective: 2015 Spring Quarter.

DRA 092—Internship in Dramatic Art (1-12) Variable—1-12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of instructor and department chairperson. Restricted to lower division students with less than 84 units completed. Internship outside the Department of Theatre and Dance enabling students to practice their skills. May be repeated up to 12 unit(s). (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2006 Fall Quarter.

DRA 098—Directed Group Study (1-5) Primarily for lower division students. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 099—Special Study for Undergraduates (1-5) (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 111—Advanced Presentation Skills (2) Lecture/Lab—4 hours. Class size limited 20 students. Development of clear oral and physical communication skills that build confidence, presentational style and clarity for students whose command of English is at a competent to fluent level. GE credit: OL. Effective: 2013 Spring

DRA 111S—Representation and Identity in Culture and Cinema (4) Film Viewing—4 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Issues of personal and collective identity via study of film narratives from different cultures. Reflection of dominant cultural identities in film. Taught in Australia. Effective: 2006 Spring Quarter.

DRA 114—Theatre on Film (4) Film Viewing—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Study of six/eight plays on film, using mixed casts and raising issues of diversity. Focus: sociohistorical context for production and reception, interpretation and analysis of topics (gender, ethnicity, age, politics, philosophy), and filming, screenwriting, design, and acting/directing for film. GE credit: AH, SS, VL. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 115—Advanced Study of Major Film Makers (4) Film Viewing—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Analysis of the contribution of some outstanding film creators. Study of diverse aesthetic theories of the cinema and their application to selected films. May be repeated for credit when different film creator studied, or studied with a different methodological approach. GE credit: VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 116—Design on Screen (4) Film Viewing—3 hours; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Analysis of the contribution of outstanding designers for cinema, television and filmed entertainment. Study of diverse aesthetic theories of production design and art direction, costume design, or cinematography. Introductory principles and practice, history. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) when topic differs. (CTS 116.) GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

DRA 120—Intermediate Acting/Gateway: The Actor's Toolkit (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 021A; or Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Implementation of acting tools drawn predominantly from Stanislavsky’s ‘system’. Gateway into the Advanced Acting courses. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 121A—Advanced Acting: Scene Study and Script Analysis (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 120; and Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Indepth study, analysis and performance of texts from different eras, genres and styles. Implementation of tools to undertake independent preparation of character creation. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s) Since acting requires repetition to habituate the body and imagination to new practices, this course may be taken twice. New scripts and scenes must be undertaken in the repetition. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 121B—Advanced Acting: Rehearsal Processes and Practices (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 120; and Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Development of rehearsal practice and etiquette, using a variety of scenes from different eras and genres. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s) The course has been established to enable visiting artists in residence to undertake the instruction, as well as faculty. Therefore, this course may be taken twice, as students will be exposed to different professional practitioners’ working processes. New etudes, scripts and scenes must be undertaken in the repetition. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2013

DRA 121C—Advanced Acting: Character and Style (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 120; and Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Study of psycho-physical techniques to create characters with an emphasis on non-realistic styles. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s) Since acting requires repetition to habituate the body and imagination to new practices, this course may be taken twice. New scripts and scenes must be undertaken in the repetition. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2012 Fall Quarter.

DRA 122A—Advanced Acting: Devising and Collaboration (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 120; and Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Study and practice of various devising techniques, to collaborate on and produce a series of short etudes and dramatic scenes/short plays. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s) Since acting requires repetition to habituate the body and imagination to new practices, this course may be taken twice. New scripts and scenes must be undertaken in the repetition. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2016

DRA 122B—Advanced Acting: Shakespeare and His Contemporaries (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 120; and Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Study and performance of classical texts (monologues and dialogues), with a focus on Shakespeare and the Elizabethan world view. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s) Since acting requires repetition to habituate the body and imagination to new practices, this course may be taken twice. New monologues and scenes must be undertaken in the repetition. GE credit: OL, VL. Effective: 2013

DRA 122C—Advanced Acting: Special Topics in Acting (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 120; and Consent of Instructor. Restricted to Theatre and Dance majors; limited enrollment. Intensive study and practical exploration of a specialized area; for example, World Theatre, Social Theatre, Physical Theatre, Musical Theatre, the Ancient Greeks, etc. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s). GE credit: AH, OL, VL. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 124A—Principles of Theatrical Design: Scenery (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Pass One restricted to Theatre and Dance majors. Scene design processes, working drawings, sketching techniques, scale models, methods and materials of scenery construction. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

DRA 124B—Principles of Theatrical Design: Scenery (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Pass One restricted to Theatre and Dance majors. Analysis of plays in terms of scene design, elements of design, execution of designs for modern and period plays. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

DRA 124C—Principles of Theatrical Design: Lighting (4) Lecture/Lab—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Pass One restricted to Theatre and Dance majors. Theories of lighting the stage, equipment and control systems, execution of lighting plots. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

DRA 124D—Principles of Theatrical Design: Costume (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 024; Consent of Instructor. Pass one restricted to Theatre and Dance majors. Source materials for theatrical costuming, selecting fabrics, elements of design, analysis of plays in terms of costume design, execution of designs for modern and period plays. GE credit: AH, OL, VL. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

DRA 124E—Costume Design for Film (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Pass One restricted to Theatre and Dance majors. Theory and practice of the art and business of film costume design. Script analysis, costume research, developing design concepts, budgeting, and current production practices and methods. Execution of designs for period and contemporary films. Viewing of current films. (CTS 124E.) GE credit: AH, OL, VL. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

DRA 125—Scenic Painting: Studio (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—2 hours; Studio—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): DRA 024 or DRA 028; or Consent of Instructor. upper division standing in Theatre and Dance, Art Studio, or Design. Scene painting techniques, practices and materials including color mixing and matching, wood graining, faux painting techniques, glazing, creating foliage, stone and brick. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) with consent of instructor. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 126—Principles of Performing Arts Stage Management (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Stage management principles for theatre, dance, musical theatre, music, and concerts. The dynamical role of the stage manager in the performing arts, upper-management team. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

DRA 127A—Principles of Directing (4) Laboratory—4 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Director's creative approach to the play and to its staging. GE credit: VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 127B—Principles of Directing (4) Laboratory—4 hours; Lecture—2 hours; Rehearsal. Prerequisite(s): DRA 127A; or Consent of Instructor. Director's creative approach to the actor. GE credit: VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 128—Principles of Theatre Sound (3) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Fundamentals of sound, sound equipment, and sound design as used in modern theatre and other performance venues. Assembly, set-up, and operation of basic theatre sound reinforcement system, recording system, and theatrical playback system. Effective: 2004 Winter Quarter.

DRA 130—Approaches to Theatrical Design: Practice and Theory (4) Seminar—2 hours; Studio—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 124A or DRA 124B or DRA 124C or DRA 124D or DRA 124E; Upper division standing in Theatre and Dance, Art Studio or Design; or consent of instructor. Advanced design study in specific areas including but not limited to: research, design styles and concepts, new materials and techniques, scenery, lighting, costume, makeup, photography, projections, computer technology, spectacle and special effects, and alternative theatre forms and genres. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) when topic differs; when instructor differs. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 135—Voice in Performance (2) Performance Instruction—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 021B; or Consent of Instructor. Progression of exercises to free, develop and strengthen the voice, as a human and then as an actor's instrument with emphasis on how the voice works, to freeing the channel for sound, to interpersonal communication. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). Effective: 2009 Fall Quarter.

DRA 140A—Dance Composition (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 040A or DRA 041A or DRA 042A; or Consent of Instructor. Introduction to the craft of choreography. Compose phrases and present movement studies based on the elements of choreography: motivation, space, time, force/energy. GE credit: VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 140B—Dance Composition (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 140A Continuation of the study of choreography, focusing on the development of group choreography: duets, trios, quartets and group work, form, and accompaniment. Effective: 1999 Spring Quarter.

DRA 140C—Dance Composition (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 140A; DRA 140B Continuation of study of choreography focusing on sequencing movements for groups. The relation between dance and allied mediums of music, sets, costumes and lighting. Students conceptualize a choreographic issue and explore it through creation of short dance studies. Effective: 1999 Spring Quarter.

DRA 141—Introduction to the Fundamentals of Movement (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Introduction to fundamentals of movement that combines intellectual and kinesthetic understanding of the body's skeletal and muscular systems. Explorations based on theories of various body mind specialists including Laban, Feldenkrais, Bartenieff and Sweigard as well as the eastern discipline of Yoga. GE credit: VL. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

DRA 142—History of Modern Dance (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Modern Dance tradition, focusing on its theorizations of individual and social identity. Students will write and choreograph analyses of principle dances in this tradition. GE credit: AH, VL, WE. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

DRA 143—Dance and Movement Studio (1-4) Discussion/Laboratory—2-8 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Special studies in dance and movement such as African, Balinese, Baroque, Chinese, European, and stage combat. Offered as needed for stage productions. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s). GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 144—Introduction to Traditional Chinese Physical Culture (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Traditional Chinese Wushu practices, explored through practical work in dance laboratory conditions. Integration of practice with conceptual analysis; contemporary social, educational and artistic applications. GE credit: AH, SS. Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

DRA 144A—Introduction to Traditional Chinese Embodied Culture (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Traditional Chinese Wushu practices, explored through practical work in dance laboratory conditions. Integration of practice with conceptual analysis; contemporary social, educational and artistic applications. GE credit: AH, DD, SS, VL, WC. Effective: 2014 Winter

DRA 144B—Traditional Chinese Physical Culture (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 144A Traditional Chinese Wushu practices, explored through practical work in dance laboratory conditions. Integration of practice with conceptual analysis; contemporary social, educational and artistic applications. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) when content and instructor varies and if student progression is required. GE credit: AH, DD, SS, VL, WC. Effective: 2014 Winter Quarter.

DRA 144C—Daoist Philosophy in Traditional Chinese Movement Culture (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 144B Daoist practices of movement and their relation to daoist philosophy, explored through work in dance laboratory conditions. Integration of practice with conceptual analysis, and critical philosophy around values and ethical action. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) when content or instructor varies and if student progression is required. GE credit: AH, DD, VL, WC. Effective: 2014 Winter Quarter.

DRA 145—Directed Choreography Projects (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 140A; DRA 140B; DRA 140C; or Consent of Instructor. Conceptualization, creation, casting, rehearsing, and concert presentation of complete dances, with students integrating elements of stagecraft and directing the on-stage rehearsals. Effective: 1999

DRA 146A—Professional Track Modern Dance I (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Professionally oriented performance training. Rigorous, consistent training regimen based on traditional modern dance technique. Breath and voice, skeletal and muscular placement, moving from the spine, contraction technique, movement intention. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). GE credit: VL. Effective: 2016 Spring

DRA 146B—Professional Track Modern Dance II (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 146A; and Consent of Instructor. Body and space relationships in solos, duets and group work; stylistic variations of Graham technique; works of Paul Taylor. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). GE credit: VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 146C—Professional Track Modern Dance III (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 146A; DRA 146B; and Consent of Instructor. Continuation of course 146B. Time as a theatrical device, sustaining movement and nonmovement, phrasing, musicality. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). GE credit: VL. Effective: 2017

DRA 150—American Theatre and Drama (4) Lecture—4 hours. The history of the theatre from Colonial times to the present. Readings of selected plays. GE credit: ACGH, AH, DD, VL, WE. Effective: 2014 Winter Quarter.

DRA 151S—Australian Performance and Culture (4) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Australian performance and theatre practices as a product of its culture of origin. Relationships between art and society. Taught in Australia. Effective: 2006 Spring Quarter.

DRA 154—Asian Theatre and Drama: Contexts and Forms (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Selected Asian plays and performance forms in their cultural and artistic contexts; myth, ritual and the theatre; performance training, visual presentation of the text; political theatre; intercultural performance-the fusion of Asian and Western traditions. GE credit: AH, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 155—Representing Race in Performance (4) Lecture—4 hours. Representation and performance of "race" in American culture featuring different sub-headings such as "African American Theatre" or "Asian-Americans on Stage." May be repeated up to 1 time(s) when topic differs. GE credit: AH, DD, WE. Effective: 2012 Spring Quarter.

DRA 155B—Ancient and Contemporary Greek Theatre and Dance (6) Discussion/Laboratory—10 hours; Performance Instruction—10 hours; Seminar—13 hours. Origins of early theatres and the first actors, playwrights and dancers and their powerful influence on western performance and thought up to present day. Offered in Greece. GE credit: AH. Effective:

DRA 156AN—Performance Analysis (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Performance on the stage, in the street, in everyday life, ritual, and in politics. Satire, irony, creative protest and performance. Social movements, the state, and performance as tactical intervention. GE credit: AH, DD, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 156C—Modern Aesthetic Movements in Performance (4) Discussion—1 hour; Discussion/Laboratory—3 hours. Important movements in performance, especially theatre and dance, from realism to the present. Primary emphasis on Western traditions though others may be studied. GE credit: AH, WE. Effective: 2017 Spring Quarter.

DRA 156D—Theatre History Through Shakespeare (4) Extensive Writing; Lecture—4 hours. Shakespeare's plays, theatre history, and theatre today. European contexts from 1590-2004 and international theatre from 20th century. Stagecraft, different media (print, stage, film), social/political environments, design, and cultural change (gender, sexuality and ethnicity). May be repeated up to 1 time(s). GE credit: AH, OL, WC, WE. Effective: 2014 Spring Quarter.

DRA 158—Performance Studies Undergraduate Seminar (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. DRA 156AN recommended. Focused inquiry into a particular genre, period, movement, artist, or theme in performance. Philosophical and aesthetic issues as well as historical and cultural performance contexts. In-depth research projects in relationship to the subject of inquiry. May be repeated for credit. GE credit: WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 159—Contemporary Experimental Performance, Theatre and Drama (4) Extensive Writing; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Evaluation and examination of the "New Theatre;" its experimental and innovative nature since the 1960s. Dance, film, stage, performance art and public acts of a performative nature. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) if content differs. GE credit: AH, DD, VL, WC, WE. Effective: 2014 Spring Quarter.

DRA 159S—Contemporary Experimental Performance, Theatre and Drama (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Evaluation and examination of the "New Theatre;" its experimental and innovative nature since the 1960s. Dance, film, stage, performance art and public acts of a performative nature. May be repeated up to 12 unit(s) if instructor or content varies. GE credit: AH, WE. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

DRA 160A—Principles of Playwriting (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Analysis of dramatic structure; preparation of scenarios; the composition of plays. GE credit: WE. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

DRA 160B—Principles of Playwriting (4) Lecture—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 160A; and Consent of Instructor. Analysis of dramatic structure; preparation of scenarios; the composition of plays. GE credit: WE. Effective: 2016 Spring

DRA 170—Media Theatre (4) Lecture—1 hour; Performance Instruction—1 hour; Rehearsal—2 hours. New media and application of in theatre devising and performance. Emphasis on collaborative process in relationship to integration of emerging technologies and formation of new theatrical works. Development of collaborative performance through lecture, demonstration, improvisation and experimentation. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2017 Spring Quarter.

DRA 174—Acting for Camera (4) Lecture/Lab—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Analysis and practice of acting skills required for camera work and digital media. May be repeated up to 8 unit(s) when instructor differs. (CTS 174.) Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 175—Small Scale Film Production (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Lecture and intensive workshop teaching small-scale film production. Appointments as a(n) director, director of photography, actor, writer, lighting designer, sound designer and other critical positions are used to produce and submit a short film to a film festival. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). (TCS 175.) Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

DRA 180—Theatre Laboratory (1-5) Variable—1-5 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Projects in acting, production, scene design, costuming, lighting, directing, and playwriting. Participation in departmental productions. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 180A—Theatre Laboratory: Performance (1-5) Rehearsal—12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Limited enrollment. Rehearsal and performance of a production directed or choreographed by visiting Granada Artists-in-Residence and/or faculty, and/or the UG Edge Festival. May be repeated for credit Since each production involves different scripts, directions, challenges of rehearsal practices and performance processes, it is possible for students to appear in a variety of productions in the course of their education. Admission by audition. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 180B—Theatre Laboratory: Design (1-4) Variable—1-4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Design-related participation in theatre and dance productions involves research, creation and implementation of design concept in collaboration with the director and other members of the production team. May be repeated for credit Because each theatrical piece is conceived and produced afresh with new source material, scripts, and production style the challenges and assignments for the designers will be new each and every time they design a show. GE credit: AH, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 180C—Theatre Laboratory: Management, Directing, other Production Team (1-5) Variable—3-15 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Participation in theatre and dance production in management, direction, choreography, dramaturgy, writing or other production related role; research, creation and implementation of production concept in collaboration with members of the production team and cast. May be repeated up to 5 unit(s) May repeat multiple times but only for a total of five units. Permission to repeat is required from the Dramatic Art department. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

DRA 180D—Theatre Laboratory: Crew (2-4) Laboratory—6-12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Participation in theatre and dance productions as backstage running crew which will involve skill development, rehearsal and execution of performance. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 180E—Theatre Laboratory: Scenic (1-4) Laboratory—3-12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Practical experience working on scenery and properties for theatre and dance department productions. Study and execution of basic scenery and prop engineering, construction, painting, rigging. Study of techniques, materials, tools, and equipment use. Skill development, professional etiquette. Safety training requirement. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 180F—Theatre Laboratory: Costume (1-4) Laboratory—3-12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Practical experience working on costumes for theatre and dance department productions. Study and execution of basic costume construction techniques and materials, tools, and equipment use. Skills development, professional etiquette. Safety training requirement. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 180G—Theatre Laboratory: Lighting/Sound/Projection (1-4) Laboratory—3-12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Practical experience working on lighting, sound or projections for theatre and dance department productions. Study and execution of basic techniques, materials, tools, and equipment use. Skill development, professional etiquette. Safety training requirement. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2013 Spring Quarter.

DRA 192—Internships in Theatre and Dance (1-12) Internship—3-36 hours. Theatre production experience in creative, technical or management areas. Experience in galleries, performance sites, or theatre/dance/physical theatre companies. May be repeated up to 12 unit(s). Not open to students who have completed DRA 192S. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2004 Fall Quarter.

DRA 192S—Internships in Theatre and Dance (1-12) Internship—3-36 hours. Theatre production experience in creative, technical or management areas. Experience in galleries, performance sites, or theatre/dance/physical theatre companies. This course is offered in Sydney, Australia. May be repeated up to 12 unit(s). Not open to students who have completed DRA 192. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2005 Spring Quarter.

DRA 194HA—Special Study for Honors Students (3) Independent Study—9 hours. Prerequisite(s): Qualification for Letters and Science Honors Program and admission to Theatre and Dance Senior Honors Program. Preparation and presentation of a culminating project, under the supervision of an instructor, in one of the creative or scholarly areas of Theatre and Dance. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 194HB—Special Study for Honors Students (3) Independent Study—9 hours. Prerequisite(s): Qualification for Letters and Science Honors Program and admission to Theatre and Dance Senior Honors Program. Preparation and presentation of a culminating project, under the supervision of an instructor, in one of the creative or scholarly areas of Theatre and Dance. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 195—Senior Capstone Experience (2) Lecture/Discussion—1 hour; Project (Term Project). Open to Theatre and Dance Majors who have completed 135 or more units. Capstone experience for majors. Examination, reflection and synthesis on development. Discussion of professional development and translatable skills. Individual project and development of portfolio. (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: AH, WE. Effective:

DRA 197T—Tutoring in Dramatic Art (1-5) Tutorial—1-5 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Upper division or graduate standing with major in Theatre and Dance; consent of department chairperson. Leading of small voluntary groups affiliated with one of the department's regular courses. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 198—Directed Group Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

DRA 199—Special Study for Advanced Undergraduates (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

DRA 200—Methods and Materials in Theatre Research (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Essential research tools in theatre and related fields; bibliographies, primary sources; methods of evaluating and presenting evidence; delineating research areas in the field. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 211—Advanced Voice and Speech (3) Laboratory—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Open only to Dramatic Arts Students and Ph.D. students with an emphasis in Performance and Theatre. Review a progression of exercises to free, develop and strengthen the voice, first as a human instrument, and then as an actor's instrument using various texts such as Shakespeare, Ibsen and contemporary plays. Required for the M.F.A. degree in Acting. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 212—Advanced Stage Movement (3) Laboratory—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Graduate standing in the MFA Program. Open to advanced undergraduates by consent of instructor. Application of modes of exploration, breath placement, and the use of imagery as well as Laban's effort/shape system as a method of analysis in classic and modern plays. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2016 Spring

DRA 221—Special Problems in Advanced Acting (4) Laboratory—4 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Advanced acting problems arising from differences in the type and style of plays selected from Greece to the present. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 224A—Seminar in Theatrical Design: Ancient Worlds--Early 17th Century (4) Project (Term Project)—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group study while focusing primarily on one discipline: scenic, costume or lighting design. Periods covered: Greek, Medieval, Renaissance, Shakespearean, Jacobean, early 17th century. Design projects include script analysis, research of period style, fashion, character development, developing design concepts, presentation skills. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 224B—Seminar in Theatrical Design: Mid 17th Century to 1900 (4) Project (Term Project)—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group study focusing primarily on one discipline: scenic, costume or lighting design. Periods covered: Cavalier, Restoration 18th century opera and ballet, 19th century drama. Design projects include script analysis, research of period style, fashion, character development, developing design concepts,presentation skills. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 224C—Seminar in Theatrical Design: the 20th Century (4) Project (Term Project)—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group study focusing primarily on one discipline-scenic, costume or lighting design. 20th century genres covered: Realism, Brecht, Musicals, Contemporary Dance, short narrative film. Design projects include script analysis, research of period style, fashion, character development, developing design concepts, presentation skills. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 224D—Seminar in Theatrical Design: Contemporary Concepts (4) Project (Term Project)—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group study focusing primarily on one discipline: scenic, costume or lighting design. Emphasis on contemporary design concepts for new works and classics: Shakespeare, modern dance, concept plays and musicals. Script and character analysis for design in performance, research, design projects. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 224E—Seminar in Theatrical Design: Advanced Concepts (4) Project (Term Project)—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group study focusing primarily on one discipline: scenic, costume or lighting design. Emphasis on special issues in contemporary design concepts for new works and classics. Script and character analysis for design in performance, research, design projects. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 225—Performance Design Studio: Techniques and Media (2) Studio—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): DRA 224A (can be concurrent) or DRA 224B (can be concurrent) or DRA 224C (can be concurrent) or DRA 224D (can be concurrent) or DRA 224E (can be concurrent); Consent of Instructor. Exploration and development of techniques and skills in the performance design process. Drafting, model building, drawing, painting and rendering, costume drawing, color theory, lighting techniques, design portfolio preparation and presentation. May be repeated up to 5 time(s). Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 228—Seminar in Directing Theory: Non-Realism (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Modern directing theory as it applies to non-realistic theatre; development of directorial concepts for production of selected non-realistic plays-Greek to the present; emphasis on textual analysis. Effective: 2016 Spring

DRA 229—Special Problems in Directing (4) Laboratory—2 hours; Rehearsal—4 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Projects in directing scenes selected from plays from ancient Greece to the present. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Quarter.

DRA 230—Advanced Problems in Choreography and Performance (2) Discussion/Laboratory—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Explores contemporary issues of choreography and performance in depth and how those issues pertain to performance work. Focus will include contemporary thought on representation, legibility, new forms, and cultural attitudes. May be repeated up to 6 time(s). Effective: 2012 Winter Quarter.

DRA 244—Critical Approaches to Traditional Systems of Body Movement (4) Discussion/Laboratory—6 hours; Project (Term Project); Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Introduction to traditional systems for body movement, development of critical approaches to them, and experiments in how they inform training and practice in theatre, dance, and performance. May be repeated up to 5 time(s). Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 250—Modern Theatre (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Theatre of Europe and America, 1860-1940, with emphasis on the relationship of the dramas of the period to the physical circumstances under which they were produced. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 251—Scoring and Scripting in Performance (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Process of weaving together various performance elements brought into play by the artists in their respective disciplines. The "script" is the thread from which the artists' "scores" will layer and transform the "script" into performance for specific time, place, spectators. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 252—Performance: Concepts of Space, Place, and Time (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Innovative theories of creating performance spaces, establishing a sense of place, and communicating the concept of time explored through collaborative interaction. Research includes traditional principles, sitespecific spaces and consideration of various tempi from music and movement. Effective: 2016

DRA 253—Approaches to Collaboration (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Exploration of different approaches to collaboration among artists in different media and their influence on the creative process. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 254—Performing Identities/Personae (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Historical and contemporary theories of constructing stage identities. Discussion and project collaborations based on theories. Questions of identity related to ethnicity, gender or sexual orientation. Effective: 2016

DRA 255—Composition in the Arts (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Examine manner in which specific elements utilized by actors, dancers, directors, choreographers, and designers are combined or related to form a whole in space and time, as well as methods of sequencing used by each discipline to produce artistic products. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). Effective: 2016

DRA 256—Visual Language for Performance (4) Laboratory—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Restricted to graduate students. Exploration of different approaches and methods to the visual elements of performance. Focus on design and style for different media and genres, storytelling through visual elements of performance. Effective: 2017 Winter Quarter.

DRA 257—Interdisciplinary Seminar in Theatre, Dance and Performance (1) Project (Term Project)—1.5 hours; Seminar—1.5 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Restricted to students enrolled in the MFA in Dramatic Art; students taking the PhD in Performance Studies or the DE in Studies in Performance and Practice may apply to enroll. Interdisciplinary seminar for first and second year MFA students in Theatre and Dance. Topics range from current practice in dance, theatre, film and performance, to leading edge developments by outstanding practitioners in the field. May be repeated up to 2 time(s). Effective: 2017 Spring Quarter.

DRA 259—Topics in Contemporary Theatre and Performance (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Special topics designed to study in depth aspects of contemporary performance including performance analysis, cultural and historical context, modes of production, theoretical and political entailments, and issues of spectatorship (e.g., "Brecht and After," "British Theater," "Race and Gender in Performance." May be repeated up to 5 time(s). Effective: 2016

DRA 260—Approaches and Methodologies to Studies in Performance and Practice (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Admission to any graduate program in the University and consent of instructor. Preference to students enrolled in the Designated Emphasis in Studies in Performance and Practice. Instruction is offered a variety of disciplinary approaches and methodologies in Performance and Practice, with a focus is on crossdisciplinary learning and research. Usually offered each quarter. May be repeated for credit when content differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 265A—Performance Studies: Modes of Production (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Introduces students to the literature of performance production in a variety of media: theatre, dance, film, video, computer-based, looking at cultural, aesthetic, rhetorical and political theory. Usually offered in alternate years. Maybe repeated for credit with different topical matter/instructor. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) topic differs. Effective: 2016

DRA 265B—Peformance Studies: Signification and the Body (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Introduces students to analysis of the body in performance, drawing on theoretical models from several fields. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) when topic differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 265C—Performance Studies: Performance and Society (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Introduces students to the role of performance (broadly defined), in everyday life, sociopolitical negotiation, identity, social movements, the media, and the state. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) when topic differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 265D— Performance studies: Theory, History, Criticism (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Introduction to the theory, history and criticism, informing performance studies. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) when topic differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 280—Theatre Laboratory (1-12) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Advanced practice in acting, designing, directing, playwriting, and technical theatre. May be repeated for credit. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 298—Group Study (1-5) Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

DRA 299—Individual Study (1-12) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Individual study. (S/U grading only.) Effective:

DRA 299D—Dissertation Research (1-12) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Dissertation research. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

DRA 396—Teaching Assitant Training Practicum (1-4) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

DRA 413—Stage Make-up (1) Lecture/Lab—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Approved for graduate degree credit. Lectures, demonstrations, and practical work in aspects of theatrical make-up. Effective: 1997
