DVM 444—Equine Ophthalmology (1.5-18) Clinical Activity. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Ongoing education, training, and experience in an ophthalmic specialty practice dealing with equine patients. Learn to take histories related to ocular problems, to competently examine an eye, and to perform basic diagnostic procedures. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s) with consent of instructor. Effective: 2018 Spring Semester.

DVM 445—California Animal Health and Food Safety Laboratory - Davis (1.5-18) Review all entries Clinical Activity. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Overview of how CAHFS interfaces with the production animal industry and practitioners. Understanding of the laboratory approach to the diagnosis of predominately production animal diseases. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s) with consent of instructor. Effective:

DVM 445—California Animal Health and Food Safety Laboratory - Davis (1.5-18) Review all entries Clinical Activity. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Overview of how CAHFS interfaces with the production animal industry and practitioners. Understanding of the laboratory approach to the diagnosis of predominately production animal diseases. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s) with consent of instructor. Effective:

DVM 446—Pre-approved Externship (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Approved program of study to receive training and experience in specific areas outside the School of Veterinary Medicine. These include private practice, industry, and academic institutions and allow students to pursue specific career paths with excellent educational opportunities. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2016 Spring Semester.

DVM 446—Pre-approved Externship (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Approved program of study to receive training and experience in specific areas outside the School of Veterinary Medicine. These include private practice, industry, and academic institutions and allow students to pursue specific career paths with excellent educational opportunities. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 447—Education and Leadership (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1.5-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Third- and/or fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Gain knowledge and experience in aspects of veterinary education and leadership. Students will work under faculty mentorship to assist in the delivery of the content in a block in years 1, 2 or 3 of the curriculum. Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 447—Educational Leadership (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1.5-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Third- and/or fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. To gain knowledge and experience in various aspects of veterinary education and leadership, students will work under faculty mentorship to assist in the delivery of the content in a block in years 1, 2 or 3 of the curriculum. This could be in the form of co-presenting a lecture, co-teaching a lab, facilitating a PBL, or other content-related activities deemed appropriate by faculty. Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 448—California Animal Health and Food Safety Laboratory - San Bernardino (1.518) Review all entries Clinical Activity. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Overview of how CAHFS interfaces with the production animal industry and practitioners. Understanding of the laboratory approach to the diagnosis of predominately production animal diseases. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s) with consent of instructor. Effective:

DVM 448—California Animal Health and Food Safety Laboratory - San Bernardino (1.518) Review all entries Clinical Activity. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Overview of how CAHFS interfaces with the production animal industry and practitioners. Understanding of the laboratory approach to the diagnosis of predominately production animal diseases. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s) with consent of instructor. Effective:

DVM 449—Externship (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Approved program of study to receive training and experience outside the School of Veterinary Medicine. Opportunities include private practice and provides first-hand experiences in diagnostic and therapeutic capabilities and management and business methods in the private sector. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 449—Externship (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Approved program of study to receive training and experience outside the School of Veterinary Medicine. Opportunities include private practice and provides first-hand experiences in diagnostic and therapeutic capabilities and management and business methods in the private sector. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 450—Cardiology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Diagnostic techniques of history taking, cardiac physical examination, electrocardiography, radiography, echocardiography, and cardiac catheterization and medical, interventional, and surgical therapy of cardiac disorders will be taught along with the etiology and pathophysiology of various cardiac disorders. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014

DVM 450—Cardiology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Diagnostic techniques of history taking, cardiac physical examination, electrocardiography, radiography, echocardiography, and cardiac catheterization and medical, interventional, and surgical therapy of cardiac disorders will be taught along with the etiology and pathophysiology of various cardiac disorders. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall

DVM 451—Clinical Pathology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Focus on the practical use and application of laboratory testing in a practice setting to facilitate optimal management of patients. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective:

DVM 451—Clinical Pathology - VMTH (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Focus on the practical use and application of laboratory testing in a practice setting to facilitate optimal management of patients. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective:

DVM 452—Small Animal Community Medicine (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1.5-518 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Practice wellness care in pediatric and adult patients, address medical management of geriatric patients, and develop a practical, problem-oriented approach to routine medical issues presenting in general practice. Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 452—Community Practice (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1.5-518 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Practice wellness care in pediatric and adult patients, address medical management of geriatric patients, and develop a practical, problem-oriented approach to routine medical issues presenting in general practice. Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 453—Small Animal Community Surgery--Gourley (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. General surgery service to include instruction in physical exams, basic anesthesia, pain management and routine surgeries. Sample surgeries include routine spays and neuters, cystotomy, mass removal, digit amputation, encluceation, etc. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 453—Community Surgery - Gourley Clinical Teaching Center (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. General surgery service to include instruction in physical exams, basic anesthesia, pain management and routine surgeries. Sample surgeries include routine spays and neuters, cystotomy, mass removal, digit amputation, encluceation, etc. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 454—Companion Avian and Exotic Pet Medicine (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Basic components of husbandry, nutrition, handling, diseases, medical and surgical treatment of companion exotics including avian (companion and wildlife), small exotic mammal, reptilian, amphibian and aquatic animal patients. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 454—Companion Avian and Pet Exotics (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Basic components of husbandry, nutrition, handling, diseases, medical and surgical treatment of companion exotics including avian (companion and wildlife), small exotic mammal, reptilian, amphibian and aquatic animal patients. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 455—Dentistry/Oral Surgery (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1.5-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Examination, diagnosis and treatment of small animals presenting with oral or dental diseases. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 455—Dentistry / Oral Surgery (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1.5-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Examination, diagnosis and treatment of small animals presenting with oral or dental diseases. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 456—Dermatology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Exposure to veterinary dermatology. Learn the importance of obtaining a good history, performing a good physical examination and characterizing lesions. Various diagnostic and therapeutic techniques specific to dermatology will be demonstrated. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 456—Dermatology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Exposure to veterinary dermatology. Learn the importance of obtaining a good history, performing a good physical examination and characterizing lesions. Various diagnostic and therapeutic techniques specific to dermatology will be demonstrated. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 457—Equine Emergency and Critical Care (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1.5-518 hours. Prerequisite(s): Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. In-depth training and hands-on experience in various facets of equine emergency case management, including the diagnosis, management, and treatment of equine emergency patients. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2016 Summer Semester.

DVM 457—Equine Emergency Surgery (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1.5-518 hours. Prerequisite(s): Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. In-depth training and hands-on experience in various facets of equine emergency case management, including the diagnosis, management, and treatment of equine emergency patients. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 458—Equine Emergency Nights (1.5-18) Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Provide service for emergency surgical and medical management for all equine and camelid emergencies; i.e., colic, wounds, musculoskeletal injuries, septic foals, dystocia, and neurologic and ophthalmologic emergencies. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 459—Equine Field Service (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. On-farm practical experience in the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of equine disease problems. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 459—Equine Field Service (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. On-farm practical experience in the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of equine disease problems. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 460—Equine Medicine--General (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Learn and practice the highest level of equine internal medicine with the goal to generate or implement a problem-oriented approach to clinical problems, determine a diagnostic work-up, prognosis and treatment plan for patients. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective:

DVM 460—Equine Medicine In House (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Learn and practice the highest level of equine internal medicine with the goal to generate or implement a problem-oriented approach to clinical problems, determine a diagnostic work-up, prognosis and treatment plan for patients. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective:

DVM 461—Theriogenology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Routine reproductive management in small and large animals in a tertiary referral setting at the VMTH. Participate in weekly clinical and endocrinology rounds. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2015 Summer Semester.

DVM 461—Theriogenology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Routine reproductive management in small and large animals in a tertiary referral setting at the VMTH. Participate in weekly clinical and endocrinology rounds. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 462—Equine Surgery and Lameness (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Advanced training and experience in equine surgery services to manage all orthopedic and non-orthopedic elective surgical disorders as well as equine lameness disorders. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2015 Summer Semester.

DVM 462—Equine Surgery and Lameness (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Advanced training and experience in equine surgery services to manage all orthopedic and non-orthopedic elective surgical disorders as well as equine lameness disorders. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 463—Farrier Shop and Equine Sports Medicine (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Introduction to the normal structure and function of the equine foot. Principles of corrective shoeing for many lameness disorders. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective:

DVM 463—Farrier and Sports Medicine (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Introduction to the normal structure and function of the equine foot. Principles of corrective shoeing for many lameness disorders. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective:

DVM 464—Small Animal Community Surgery--CCAH (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. General surgery service to include instruction in physical exams, basic anesthesia, pain management and routine surgeries. Surgeries include routine spays and neuters and other minor procedures such as simple mass removals. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 464—Community Surgery - CCAH (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. General surgery service to include instruction in physical exams, basic anesthesia, pain management and routine surgeries. Surgeries include routine spays and neuters and other minor procedures such as simple mass removals. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 465—Equine Surgery and Lameness II (1.5-18) Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Advanced training and experience in equine surgery services to manage all orthopedic and non-orthopedic elective surgical disorders as well as equine lameness disorders. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 466—Small Animal Medicine B (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Improve clinical skills required to manage cases in the Small Animal Service including comprehensive histories, preforming complete physical examinations, obtaining samples, interpreting results, conducting special procedures and assisting faculty and residents in the diagnosis, prevention, management and treatment of disease. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 466—Internal Medicine B (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Improve clinical skills required to manage cases in the Small Animal Service including comprehensive histories, performing complete physical examinations, obtaining samples, interpreting results, conducting special procedures and assisting faculty and residents in the diagnosis, prevention, management and treatment of disease. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 467—Small Animal Outpatient Medicine (1.5-18) Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Exposure to general medicine outpatient cases and to develop a practical, problem oriented approach to routine medical issues presenting in general practice. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 468—California Animal Health and Food Safety Laboratory - Tulare (1.5-18) Review all entries Clinical Activity. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Overview of how CAHFS interfaces with the production animal industry and practitioners. Understanding of the laboratory approach to the diagnosis of predominately production animal diseases. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s) with consent of instructor. Effective:

DVM 468—California Animal Health and Food Safety Laboratory - Tulare (1.5-18) Review all entries Clinical Activity. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Overview of how CAHFS interfaces with the production animal industry and practitioners. Understanding of the laboratory approach to the diagnosis of predominately production animal diseases. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s) with consent of instructor. Effective:

DVM 469—California Animal Health and Food Safety Laboratory - Turlock (1.5-18) Review all entries Clinical Activity. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Overview of how CAHFS interfaces with the production animal industry and practitioners. Understanding of the laboratory approach to the diagnosis of predominately production animal diseases. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s) with consent of instructor. Effective:

DVM 469—California Animal Health and Food Safety Laboratory - Turlock (1.5-18) Review all entries Clinical Activity. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Overview of how CAHFS interfaces with the production animal industry and practitioners. Understanding of the laboratory approach to the diagnosis of predominately production animal diseases. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s) with consent of instructor. Effective:

DVM 470—Food Animal Preceptorship (1.5-18) Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Individual animal medicine and surgery as well as herd reproductive programs on the farm. A regular client base with a variety of species is served: dairy cattle, beef cattle, goats and sheep. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective:

DVM 471—Livestock Medicine and Surgery (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1.5-518 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Hands-on clinical experience diagnosing, treating, and managing medical and surgical diseases of primary care and referral cases involving dairy cattle, beef cattle, sheep, dairy goats, meat goats, and pigs. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring

DVM 471—Livestock Medicine and Surgery In House (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1.5-518 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Hands-on clinical experience diagnosing, treating, and managing medical and surgical diseases of primary care and referral cases involving dairy cattle, beef cattle, sheep, dairy goats, meat goats, and pigs. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 472—Livestock Reproduction/Herd Health (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1.5-518 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Exposure to individual animal medicine and surgery as well as herd reproductive programs on the farm. A regular client base with a variety of species is served: dairy cattle, beef cattle, goats and sheep. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring

DVM 472—Livestock Reproduction / Herd Health (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1.5-518 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Exposure to individual animal medicine and surgery as well as herd reproductive programs on the farm. A regular client base with a variety of species is served: dairy cattle, beef cattle, goats and sheep. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall

DVM 473—Dairy Production Medicine--Tulare (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Advanced training and experience in a clinical dairy health and production medicine delivery system. Exposure to contemporary dairy production and population medicine programs. Develop ability to communicate with producers and farm employees. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 473—Dairy Production Medicine - Tulare (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Advanced training and experience in a clinical dairy health and production medicine delivery system. Exposure to contemporary dairy production and population medicine programs. Develop the ability to communicate with producers and farm employees. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 474—Equine Emergency/Critical Care Medicine (1.5-18) Variable—1.5-518 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. In-depth training and hands-on experience in various facets of equine emergency case management, including the diagnosis, management, and treatment of both equine emergency medical and surgical patients. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring

DVM 475—Lab Animal Medicine (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Provide exposure to various management activities and techniques used by laboratory animal veterinarians both antemortem & postmortem to support animal research primarily involving rodents but may include many vertebrates from fish to non-human primates. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective:

DVM 475—Laboratory Animal Medicine (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Provide exposure to various management activities and techniques used by laboratory animal veterinarians both antemortem & postmortem to support animal research primarily involving rodents but may include many vertebrates from fish to non-human primates. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 476—Large Animal Anesthesia (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Advanced training and experience in anesthetic management, acute care problem-solving and decision-making of healthy and physiologically stressed large animal patients. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 476—Large Animal Anesthesia (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Advanced training and experience in anesthetic management, acute care problem-solving and decision-making of healthy and physiologically stressed large animal patients. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 477—Large Animal Radiology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Training in the art of making quality radiographs of large animal patients and interpreting radiographic studies. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring

DVM 477—Large Animal Radiology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Training in the art of making quality radiographs of large animal patients and interpreting radiographic studies. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 478—Large Animal Ultrasonography (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Hands-on experience in the ultrasonographic diagnosis of primarily musculoskeletal injuries and abdominal disorders in horses and the occasional non-equine patient. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 478—Large Animal Ultrasonography (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Hands-on experience in the ultrasonographic diagnosis of primarily musculoskeletal injuries and abdominal disorders in horses and the occasional non-equine patient. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 479—Small Animal Emergency -- Nights (1.5-18) Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Emergency practice includes the immediate recognition, evaluation, and care of patients with acute illness and injury. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring

DVM 480—Neurology/Neurosurgery (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Provide specialized veterinary care for animals with neurological diseases; i.e., disorders of the brain, inner ear, spinal cord, and vertebrae and diseases affecting muscles, nerves and the neuromuscular junction. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring

DVM 480—Neurology / Neurosurgery (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Provide specialized veterinary care for animals with neurological diseases; i.e., disorders of the brain, inner ear, spinal cord, and vertebrae and diseases affecting muscles, nerves and the neuromuscular junction. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 481—Nutrition (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Advanced training and experience in the principles and practice of small animal clinical nutrition. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 481—Nutrition (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Advanced training and experience in the principles and practice of small animal clinical nutrition. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 482—Oncology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Advanced training and experience in diagnosis, staging, medical management, and prognostication of cancer in animal patients. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014

DVM 482—Medical Oncology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Advanced training and experience in diagnosis, staging, medical management, and prognostication of cancer in animal patients. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018

DVM 483—Ophthalmology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Ongoing education, training, and experience in an ophthalmic specialty practice dealing with companion and exotic species. Learn to take histories related to ocular problems, to competently examine an eye, and to perform basic diagnostic procedures. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 483—Small Animal Ophthalmology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Ongoing education, training, and experience in an ophthalmic specialty practice dealing with companion and exotic species. Learn to take histories related to ocular problems, to competently examine an eye, and to perform basic diagnostic procedures. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 484—Small Animal Orthopedic Surgery (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Lameness examinations and treatments for all orthopedic diseases to include osteoarthritis, developmental diseases, trauma-induced injuries and cancer. Both medical and surgical treatments are used and presented to owners in an evidenced based fashion. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 484—Orthopedic Surgery (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Lameness examinations and treatments for all orthopedic diseases to include osteoarthritis, developmental diseases, trauma-induced injuries and cancer. Both medical and surgical treatments are used and presented to owners in an evidenced based fashion. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 485—Anatomic Pathology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Advanced training and experience to develop a general understanding of the nature of common pathologic lesions and their interpretation in light of clinical history. Postmortem techniques and practice in writing descriptions of gross lesions. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 485—Anatomic Pathology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Advanced training and experience to develop a general understanding of the nature of common pathologic lesions and their interpretation in light of clinical history. Postmortem techniques and practice in writing descriptions of gross lesions. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 486—Primate Medicine (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Acquire skills to perform physical examinations, blood collection, cystocentesis, catheter placement, fluid therapy, basic wound care, bandaging, suturing, amputations, and orogastric tube feedings. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014

DVM 486—Primate Medicine (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Acquire skills to perform physical examinations, blood collection, cystocentesis, catheter placement, fluid therapy, basic wound care, bandaging, suturing, amputations, and orogastric tube feedings. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall

DVM 487—Radiation Oncology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Staging and treatment of patients with cancer and use of radiation therapy in the treatment of cancer in companion animals. Management of clinical patients, the indications for radiation therapy and technical aspects treatment planning and dose calculations. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 487—Radiation Oncology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Staging and treatment of patients with cancer and use of radiation therapy in the treatment of cancer in companion animals. Management of clinical patients, the indications for radiation therapy and technical aspects treatment planning and dose calculations. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 488—Shelter Medicine (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Exposure to all areas in a variety of shelters in the Sacramento and Bay Area. Accompany Shelter Medicine Program personnel on consultations; depending on schedule. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 488—Shelter Medicine / Surgery (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Exposure to all areas in a variety of shelters in the Sacramento and Bay Area. Accompany Shelter Medicine Program personnel on consultations; depending on schedule. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 489—Physical Rehabilitation and Integrative Medicine (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Participate in physical rehabilitation evaluation to diagnose movement dysfunction, design and effectively implement an evidence-based treatment plan to restore, maintain or enhance optimal physical function after injury, surgery or disability. Emphasis on development of observation and manual assessment skills. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2015 Summer Semester.

DVM 489—Integrative Medicine (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Participate in physical rehabilitation evaluation to diagnose movement dysfunction, design and effectively implement an evidence-based treatment plan to restore, maintain or enhance optimal physical function after injury, surgery or disability. Emphasis on development of observation and manual assessment skills. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 490—Small Animal Anesthesia (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Experience in anesthetizing small animals in a clinical setting. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Summer Semester.

DVM 490—Small Animal Anesthesia (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Experience in anesthetizing small animals in a clinical setting. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 491—Small Animal Emergency (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Emergency practice includes the immediate recognition, evaluation, and care of patients with acute illness and injury. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2015 Summer

DVM 491—Small Animal Emergency (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Emergency practice includes the immediate recognition, evaluation, and care of patients with acute illness and injury. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall

DVM 492—Small Animal Intensive Care Unit (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Gain and demonstrate competence in both the immediate and ongoing care of a diverse group of critically ill small animal patients. Gain proficiency in invasive procedures, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, stabilization of the respiratory distress patient and hemodynamic stabilization. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 492—Intensive Care Unit (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Gain and demonstrate competence in both the immediate and ongoing care of a diverse group of critically ill small animal patients. Gain proficiency in invasive procedures, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, stabilization of the respiratory distress patient and hemodynamic stabilization. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 493—Small Animal Medicine A (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Improve clinical skills required to manage cases in the Small Animal Service including comprehensive histories, preforming complete physical examinations, obtaining samples, interpreting results, conducting special procedures and assisting faculty and residents in the diagnosis, prevention, management and treatment of disease. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 493—Internal Medicine A (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Improve clinical skills required to manage cases in the Small Animal Service including comprehensive histories, preforming complete physical examinations, obtaining samples, interpreting results, conducting special procedures and assisting faculty and residents in the diagnosis, prevention, management and treatment of disease. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 494—Small Animal Radiology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Participate in technical aspects of producing radiographs, interpreting radiographic and other diagnostic imaging studies and performing diagnostic ultrasound exams. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 494—Small Animal Radiology (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Participate in technical aspects of producing radiographs, interpreting radiographic and other diagnostic imaging studies and performing diagnostic ultrasound exams. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 495—Small Animal Soft Tissue Surgery (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Participate in management of cases referred for advanced surgical techniques to include all aspects of case management from hospital admission to discharge including daily case rounds. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 495—Soft Tissue Surgery (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Participate in management of cases referred for advanced surgical techniques to include all aspects of case management from hospital admission to discharge including daily case rounds. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 496—Behavior (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Understand the importance of behavior in companion animal practice, primarily that of dogs and cats. Apply the knowledge to prevent and treat problematic behaviors in companion animals. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 496—Behavior (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Understand the importance of behavior in companion animal practice, primarily that of dogs and cats. Apply the knowledge to prevent and treat problematic behaviors in companion animals. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 497—Research (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Third- and/or fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Research rotations are designed for combined degree students who require a period of time (up to 19 weeks) to complete a discrete portion of their thesis work. May be repeated up to 30 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 497—Research (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Third- and/or fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Research rotations are designed for combined degree students who require a period of time (up to 19 weeks) to complete a discrete portion of their thesis work. May be repeated up to 30 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 498—Fish Health (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Focus on the application of basic fish health principles to address current problems as experienced by fish as held for research, as large populations in state fish hatcheries and as part of the collection of large public/private aquaria. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

DVM 498—Aquatic Medicine (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Focus on the application of basic fish health principles to address current problems as experienced by fish as held for research, as large populations in state fish hatcheries and as part of the collection of large public/private aquaria. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective: 2018 Fall Semester.

DVM 499—Zoological Medicine (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Experience in order to become proficient in performing physical examinations and collecting diagnostic samples form a variety of non-domestic animals. Majority of the rotations spent providing patient care at the Sacramento Zoo. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective:

DVM 499—Zoological Medicine (1.5-18) Review all entries Variable—1-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Experience in order to become proficient in performing physical examinations and collecting diagnostic samples form a variety of non-domestic animals. Majority of rotation time spent providing patient care at the Sacramento Zoo. May be repeated up to 23 unit(s). Effective:
