EDU 081—Learning in Science and Mathematics (2) Fieldwork—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Limited to 26 students per section. Exploration of how students learn and develop understanding in science and mathematics classrooms. Introduction to case studies and interview techniques and their use in K-6 classrooms to illuminate factors that affect student learning. (GEL 081.) (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2007 Winter Quarter.

EDU 092—Internship (1-3) Internship—3-9 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Enrollment dependent on availability of intern placements. Internship as a teacher’s aide or tutor in K-12 classrooms under the supervision of a faculty member. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2001

EDU 098—Directed Group Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Primarily for lower division students. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

EDU 100—Introduction to Schools (4) Fieldwork—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Study of occupational concerns of teachers; skills for observing classroom activities; school organization and finance; school reform movement; observing, aiding, and tutoring in schools. GE credit: ACGH, DD, OL, SS. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 110—Educational Psychology: General (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Learning processes, cognitive development, individual differences, testing and evaluation. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 114—Quantitative Methods in Educational Research (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Problems and methods in data analysis. Design of research projects. Some consideration of procedures suited to digital computers. GE credit: QL. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 115—Educating Children with Disabilities (2) Lecture—2 hours. Educational issues and processes involved in teaching children with disabilities. The course will focus on the structure of special education, with an emphasis on meeting the educational needs of children who are mainstreamed in regular classes. GE credit: SS. Effective:

EDU 119—The Use and Misuse of Standardized Tests (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Principles underlying educational and psychological testing. Purposes of testing for individual achievement and evaluation of school programs. Interpretation and misinterpretations of outcomes. Analysis of SAT, GRE and other common tests. Experience in test administration and outcome interpretation. GE credit: QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 120—Philosophical and Social Foundations of Education (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Philosophical, historical, and sociological study of education and the school in our society. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 121—Introduction to Education Policy Analysis: Tools, Methods and Frameworks (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Introduces students to the field of education policy analysis with a specific emphasis on the quantitative frameworks and analytical tools—drawn primarily from economics and statistics—that are used to guide and inform educational policymaking. GE credit: QL, SS. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

EDU 122—Children, Learning and Material Culture (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion—1 hour; Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. How material artifacts shape what and how children learn in school, at home, and in the community. Artifacts examined include books, computers, household appliances, toys and games, entertainment media, collectibles, sports equipment, clothing, folk arts and crafts, and neighborhood space. GE credit: SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2017 Summer Session 1.

EDU 130—Issues in Higher Education (4) Discussion—3 hours; Fieldwork—3 hours. Analysis of current issues in higher education and of some practical implications of varying philosophical approaches to the role of the university. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2017 Summer Session 1.

EDU 142—Introduction to Environmental Education (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Study of history, philosophy, principles and approaches to environmental education (EE) and outreach; learning theories, teaching strategies and techniques in EE and outreach; evaluation of EE curricula in non-formal and in-school contexts; observing, aiding and facilitating local environmental education programs. GE credit: OL, SS. Effective: 2009

EDU 150—Cultural Diversity and Education in a Sociopolitical Context (4) Extensive Writing; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Introduction to cultural diversity and education in a sociopolitical context. Interactive course. Small and large-group discussions explore, extend, and apply readings; range of writing genres for responses to assignments and course themes; lectures, slide shows, speakers, brief fieldwork, and presentations. GE credit: DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2011

EDU 151—Language Development in the Chicano Child (3) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Bilingualism, first and second language acquisition, bilingual education, language assessment, Chicano Spanish and the role of dialect varieties in the classroom. Not open for credit to students who have completed EDU 151T. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 151T—Language Development in the Chicano Child (3) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teaching Credential Program. Open to UC Davis Teacher Credential candidates only. Bilingualism, first and second language acquisition, bilingual education, language assessment, Chicano Spanish and the role of dialect varieties in the classroom. Not open for credit to students who have completed EDU 151. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 152—Academic Spanish for Bilingual Teachers (3) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Recitation—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teaching Credential Program or consent of instructor. Communicative class taught in Spanish focused on the development of Spanish communication skills for current and/or future bilingual teachers. Main topics are related to school content areas in bilingual settings, with an emphasis on standard and Southwest Spanish dialects. GE credit: AH, OL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 153—Diversity in the K-12 Classroom (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teaching Credential Program. Analysis of research on learning styles among culturally diverse students with review and evaluation of responsive curricula and classroom teaching techniques. The ethnographic interview as a research tool. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 160A—Introduction to Peer Counseling (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Introduction to peer counseling techniques and development of peer counseling skills. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 160B—Issues in Peer Counseling (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. In-depth review and development of skills for specific counseling topics. May be repeated once for credit when topic differs. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) May be repeated once for credit when topic differs. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 163—Guidance and Counseling (4) Lecture—4 hours. Nature and scope of pupil personnel services; basic tools and techniques of guidance; theory and practice of counseling psychology, with emphasis on educational and vocational adjustment. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 173—Language Development (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): LIN 001 or LIN 001Y; or Consent of Instructor. LIN 103A, LIN 103B recommended. Theory and research on children's acquisition of their native language, including the sound system, grammatical systems, and basic semantic categories. (LIN 173.) GE credit: SS. Effective: 2018 Spring Quarter.

EDU 180A—Computers in Education (1) Laboratory—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—1 hour; Project (Term Project)—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Restricted to Teaching Credential Majors. Applications of computers in education as instructional, intellectual, and communication tools. Effective: 2013

EDU 180B—Computers in Education (1) Laboratory—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—1 hour; Project (Term Project)—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): EDU 180A; Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Restricted to Teaching Credential Majors. Applications of computers in education as instructional, intellectual, and communication tools. Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

EDU 180C—Computers in Education (1) Laboratory—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—1 hour; Project (Term Project)—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): EDU 180B; Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Restricted to Teaching Credential Majors. Applications of computers in education as instructional, intellectual, and communication tools. Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

EDU 181—Teaching in Science and Mathematics (2) Fieldwork—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Major in mathematics, science, or engineering; or completion of a one-year sequence of science or calculus. Class size limited to 40 students per section. Exploration of effective teaching practices based on examination of how middle school students learn math and science. Selected readings, discussion and field experience in middle school classrooms. (GEL 181.) (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

EDU 182—Computer Project for Curricular Integration (1) Seminar—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Design and implementation of a curricular unit to integrate computer technology into a K-12 classroom setting. A project-based seminar intended for students with substantial prior experience with instructional use of computers and related technologies. Not open for credit to students who have completed EDU 180 or EDU 181. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 183—Teaching High School Mathematics and Science (3) Review all entries Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Major in mathematics, science, or engineering; or consent of instructor with completion of a one-year sequence of science or calculus. Limited to 40 students per section. Exploration and creation of effective teaching practices based on examination of how high school students learn mathematics and science. Field experience in high school classrooms. (Geology 183.) GE credit: OL, SS, WE. Effective: 2017 Fall Quarter.

EDU 183—Teaching High School Mathematics and Science (3) Review all entries Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Major in mathematics, science, or engineering; or completion of a one-year sequence of science or calculus and consent of the instructor. Limited to 40 students per section. Exploration and creation of effective teaching practices based on examination of how high school students learn mathematics and science. Field experience in high school classrooms. (GEL 183.) GE credit: OL, SS, WE. Effective: 2018 Fall

EDU 185—Learning in a Digital Age: Information, Schooling, and Society (4) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours; Lecture/Lab—2 hours. Focus on the changing nature of learning in a digital age: social media, ubiquitous connectivity, online education, electronic communication, writing, gaming, and youth culture. Readings will be drawn from major recent works detailing fundamental shifts in information, schooling, and society. GE credit: OL, SS, VL. Effective: 2013

EDU 192—Internship (1-3) Discussion—1 hour; Internship—2-8 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Internship as a tutor, teacher's aide, or peer counselor in a school or educational counseling setting under the supervision of a faculty member. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016

EDU 197T—Tutoring in Education (1-2) Tutorial—1-2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Leading of small voluntary discussion groups affiliated with the School's upper division courses under the supervision of, and at the option of, the course instructor, who will submit a written evaluation of the student's work. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) for a total of 4 units. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 198—Directed Group Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

EDU 199—Special Study for Advanced Undergraduates (1-5) Variable—3-15 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016

EDU 200—Educational Research (4) Discussion—2 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Introductory statistics or consent of instructor. Defining educational research questions, reviewing relevant literature, developing research designs, developing research instruments, selecting appropriate data analysis procedures, and writing research projects. A case problem will provide practice in designing and reporting research. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 201—Qualitative Research in Education (4) Lecture—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing or consent of instructor. Examines the design and conduct of educational research using non-numerical data (e.g., text, discourse, imagery and artifacts). Focuses on issues (e.g., validity, reliability, generalizability, ethics) and reporting genres (e.g., narrative accounts, case studies, and arguments). Effective:

EDU 202N—Computer Analysis of Qualitative Data (4) Laboratory—2 hours; Seminar—3 hours. Critical and practical understanding of how to use computer software programs to analyze qualitative data (text, images, and videotape) in conducting social research. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 203—Educational Testing and Evaluation (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing or consent of instructor. Introduces the theoretical assumptions underlying traditional test construction, as well as the basic statistical principles involved in the design, evaluation, and interpretation of standardized tests. Also introduces the debates surrounding the uses of different kinds of tests and evaluation tools. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

EDU 204B—Quantitative Methods in Educational Research: Experimental Designs (4) Discussion—2 hours; Discussion/Laboratory—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Introductory statistics or consent of instructor. Methods for analysis of experimental data in educational research. Topics include ANOVA, fixed v. random effects models, repeated measures ANOVA, analysis of covariance, MANOVA, chi square tests, small sample solutions to t and ANOVA. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 205A—Ethnographic Research in Schools I: Current Theory and Practice (4) Lecture—4 hours. Current literature from anthropology and society related to schools.Emphasis on the organizational structure of institutions,and the analysis of face-to-face interaction.Will explore the relationship between field-based research and theory development on the acquisition of knowledge in specific social and cultural contexts. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 205B—Ethnographic Research in Schools II: Field-Based Research Projects (4) Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): EDU 205A Student research projects in specific schools with cooperative critical analysis of the design, data collection, and inferencing by researchers. Students will continue to meet with instructor as a group throughout the quarter to discuss specific projects. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 206A—Inquiry into Classroom Practice: Traditions and Approaches (2) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Introduction to traditions and approaches of teachers conducting research in their own classrooms: purposes, focal areas, methods of data collection and analysis, and written genre conventions. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 206C—Inquiry into Classroom Practice: Study Design (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): EDU 206B; or Consent of Instructor. Open to Graduate MA Credential students. Proposal development for classroom-based inquiry designed to address student learning needs. Mixed methods research design and preliminary data collection approaches. Design and application of baseline student assessment for proposal development. Literature review. Data collection in K-12 classrooms required. Effective: 2007 Spring Quarter.

EDU 206D—Inquiry into Classroom Practice: Data Analysis and Research Reporting (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion—1 hour; Fieldwork—1 hour; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): EDU 206C; or Consent of Instructor. Open to Graduate MA Credential students. Support of the inquiry begun in course 206C through continuous collaborative critique and feedback resulting in the writing and presentation of a research study. Effective: 2007 Winter Quarter.

EDU 207—Concepts of the Curriculum (4) Discussion—2 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Development of the skills of philosophical analysis and argument for the establishment of a point of view, in the consideration of curriculum theory and practice. Classical and contemporary approaches to subject matter and activity emphases, hidden curriculum, and moral education. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 208—Presenting Educational Research in Written Reports (4) Extensive Writing; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Rhetorical and substantive challenges of presenting educational research through written reports; research rhetoric and genres; competing discourse conventions of educational research, policy, and practice; the social organization of publishing educational research. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 209—Image-based Field Research (4) Fieldwork—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Critical and practical understanding of video tape and still photography as resources for enhancing field research in schools and other social setting. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 210—Psychological Perspectives on School Learning (4) Extensive Writing; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Study of human learning theory and research related to learning of academic content. Review of contemporary issues of constructivism, problem solving, expertise, conceptual change, transfer, and metacognition. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 211—Sociocultural and Situative Perspectives on Learning and Cognition (4) Extensive Writing; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Sociocultural and situative theories of cognition and learning. Major ideas of L.S. Vygotsky, followed by modern perspectives: situated cognition, cognitive apprenticeship, situated learning, communities of practice, cultural-historical activity theory, and distributed cognition. Implications of each theoretical perspective for educational practice. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 213—Individual Assessment (4) Lecture—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Introductory statistics or consent of instructor. Theories of intellectual functioning and the measurement of cognitive abilities in school-aged children. Supervised practice in administration and scoring of contemporary tests for children including the WISC-R, the WAIS-R, the Stanford Binet, the McCarthy Scales of Children's Ability. Effective: 2016

EDU 215—Research on Achievement Motivation in Education (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Analysis and critique of recent research on cognitive processes related to achievement motivation in school settings. Topics include self-determination theory, attribution theory, goal theory, intrinsic and extrinsic motivation, learned helplessness. psychological reactance, gender and culture, and research design. Effective:

EDU 220—Concepts and Methods of Policy Analysis (4) Fieldwork; Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Introduction to concepts and methods of policy analysis. Emphasis on the relationship between educational issues and problems; policy development; constructing persuasive policy analyses; issues related to policy process. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 221—Culture and Social Organization of Schools (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Culture and social organization of schools. Examines perspectives of social researchers, educational policy-makers, and school members and their implications for educational research, policy and practice. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 222—School Change and Educational Reform (4) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Analysis of models, processes, and case studies of school change and educational reform with respect to variable characteristics of schools and schooling, planned and unplanned change, the moral evaluation of school change, and the role of educational research. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 223—Education and Social Policy (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Focuses on understanding the social and political context of education in the U.S. and California and how education policy is formed in the broader public arena. Develops skills in educational policy analysis. (Former course 237.) Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 225—Education Policy and Law (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Examination of law as an instrument of social policy. Specific focus on the legalization of education decision making, its causes, dimensions, and effects on administrative and teacher authority. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 226—Culture and Social Organization of Higher Education (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Critical study of culture and social organization of higher education institutions policies and functions in the U.S., with some attention to other countries. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 228—Politics and Governance of Education (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Examination of political power, representation, influence, decisionmaking and inter-governmental relations in the public schools. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 229—Education Finance Policy (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Examination of (1) United States financing public education, (2) the relationship between school finance and education policy, and (3) the relationship between education finance and education practice. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 230—Special Topics in Education Policy (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Selected topics in education policy. Designed to facilitate preparation for the qualifying examination or dissertation. Students will critically analyze scholarly work including their own works in progress. May be repeated for credit for credit when topic differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 235—Critical Pedagogy (4) Seminar—4 hours. A socio-cultural critique, from an interdisciplinary perspective, of educational reform and change. The critique will include an analysis of the influence of text content on the perpetuation of social power differences. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 236—Application of Hierarchical Linear Models in Education Research (4) Discussion/Laboratory—2 hours; Lecture—2 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): EDU 204A; Or similar course with permission of the instructor. Application of hierarchical linear models in education research across multiple areas, such as policy, curriculum, and assessment. Develop working knowledge of hierarchical linear modeling and an understanding of its use in existing research as well as student's work. Effective: 2009 Spring Quarter.

EDU 237—Survey Research Methods (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Theories, principles and application of survey research methodology. Students develop, validate, and administer survey instruments; select representative samples; conduct focus groups; and collect, organize, and analyze survey data. Familiarity with introductory concepts in descriptive and inferential statistics is assumed. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 238—Participatory Action Research (PAR) (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Introductory research methods course recommended. Principles and strategies of PAR and related methodologies that emphasize collaborating with those affected by the issue being researched in order to educate, take action or effect social change. Conduct interviews with potential collaborators, case analyses and research proposals. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 239—Interview Methods (4) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): EDU 201 or equivalent course recommended. Introduction to qualitative interviewing, focused in particular on narrative and selfstory as both practical method and theoretical stance. Students complete a case-focused interview project during the course: designing an interview protocol, conducting the interview, transcribing, analyzing, and presenting their research. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

EDU 242—Research on Text Comprehension (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Analysis of recent research related to cognitive processing of written texts. Topics include word decoding, schema theory, background knowledge, assimilation, accommodation, working memory, processing depth, vocabulary acquisition, sentence-level processes, text-level processes, text structure, implications for curriculum and instruction. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 243—Research on the Teaching and Learning of Writing (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Study of issues in research on composition; history of composition studies; data analysis techniques; product and process approaches; cognitive and social perspectives. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 244—Topical Seminar in Language, Literacy and Culture (4) Project (Term Project)—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Critical study of selected issues of language, literacy, and culture as they relate to education. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) topics differ. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 245—Theory and Research in Early Literacy (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Analysis of children's initial processes in learning to read extending from the preschool years into second grade. Topics include emergent literacy, phonological awareness, word recognition, decoding, spelling, vocabulary, comprehension, second language reading, assessment, intervention, and instruction. GE credit: SS. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 246—Reading as a Social and Cultural Process (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): EDU 211 recommended. Recent theoretical and empirical work on reading in social contexts. Topics include reading as an individual interactive process; reading as a social and cultural process; critical perspectives on reading; implications of contrastive theoretical perspectives for curriculum and instruction in reading. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 247—Research on Response to Culturally Diverse Literature, K-12 (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Research on response to culturally diverse literature in classrooms and other K-12 settings. Topics include reader response theories, values in expanding the literary canon, problems of cultural authenticity, resistance to multicultural literature, and instruction for diverse texts and learners. Effective: 2006 Fall Quarter.

EDU 248—Academic Language and Literacies (4) Fieldwork; Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours. Exploration of theories and research on academic language and literacies for the schooling of first and second language learners. Students use basic qualitative methods to collect and analyze classroom language and literacy data. Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

EDU 249—Discourse Analysis in Educational Settings (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): An introductory linguistics or sociolinguistics course or consent of instructor. Examines form and type in discourse (e.g., narration, conversation, routines), approaches to discourse analysis, and research on classroom discourse (lessons, teaching/learning interactional sequences). Final term paper is an analysis of discourse data taperecorded by student in a field setting. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 251—Research in Bilingual and Second Language Education (3) Seminar—3 hours. Discussion and analysis of recent research in bilingual and second language education. Topics include:language acquisition in second language learners and bilinguals, second language teaching methods, language-use models in bilingual education, interaction analysis in bilingual/cross-cultural classrooms,use of the vernacular in classrooms. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 253—Language and Literacy in Linguistic Minorities (3) Fieldwork—3 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Analysis and application of research on oral language development and literacy in language minority students, through the development, implementation, and evaluation of research-based language arts curriculum. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 255—Curriculum Development and Evaluation in Mathematics (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Analysis of curricular issues and goals in mathematics education, including long-term trends, current status and influences, proposed changes, and evaluation issues. Selected curriculum projects will be examined. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 256A—Research in Mathematics Education (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Examination of research process in mathematics education; review of critical productive problems identified by researchers; evolution of trends, issues, theories and hypotheses in various areas of mathematics education research. Course emphasizes foundations. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 256B—Research in Mathematics Education (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Current research issues and activities in mathematics education: status, trends, theories and hypotheses. Formulation of research questions and design of studies. Projection of future directions for research. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 257—Computer Technology in Mathematics Education (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Roles of calculators, computers, and graphing calculators in mathematics education will be addressed, with emphasis on the impact of these technologies on curriculum reform. Selected efforts to integrate technology into mathematics instruction will be examined. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 260—The Modern History of Science Education (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. History of curricular issues and goals in science education from the late 19th century forward, including long-term trends, current status and influences, proposed changes, and evaluation issues. National science standards and curriculum projects. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 262A—Research Topics in Science Education I (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Research process and product in science education; review of critical science education issues; evolution of trends, theories and hypotheses in various areas of science education research. Survey of current major research in science education. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 262B—Research Topics in Science Education II (4) Seminar—4 hours. Current research issues and activities in science education: status, trends, theories and hypotheses. Formulation of research questions, design of studies and critical, in-depth review of literature related to the student's research interests. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 264—Scientific Literacy and Science Education Reform (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Current trends in science education reform locally, regionally, and nationally focusing on scientific literacy. Equity, access and "science for all." Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 270—Research on Teacher Education and Development (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours. Research on teacher preparation in university credential programs and on professional development of in-service teachers, with special attention to teacher preparation for work with culturally and linguistically diverse youth. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 271—Supervision of Student Teachers: Research, Theory & Practice (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Research, theory and practice in the preparation and supervision of teachers. Practice in the supervision of candidates in university teaching credential programs during the student teaching field placement and the mentoring of novice teachers by expert teachers. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 280A—Inquiry and Practice: Qualitative Research for Educational Leaders (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Prepares students to understand the nature/assumptions/logic of qualitative methodology as applied to educational settings, focusing on issues of design/conceptualization/ interpretation/application of qualitative research procedures. Students will use these methods in conducting studies in their educational settings. Effective: 2009

EDU 280B—Inquiry and Practice: Quantitative Research for Educational Leaders (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Field-based and general quantitative research methods in education will focus this course. Students acquire skills and knowledge to collect, organize, analyze, and interpret univariate and multivariate quantitative data in educational research, dissertation projects, and field-based projects. Effective: 2010 Winter Quarter.

EDU 281A—Problem-Based Learning Courses: Part 1 (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion; Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Students identify problems from their educational settings, engage in data collection/analysis, write-up the process/results, and present to class. Work may become a dissertation proposal, if the problem or its extension is of sufficient interest and value. Effective: 2009 Fall Quarter.

EDU 281B—Problem-Based Learning Courses: Part 2 (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion; Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Continuation of part one. Effective: 2010

EDU 281C—Problem-Based Learning Courses: Part 3 (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion; Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Continuation of part two. Effective: 2010

EDU 282A—Beginning Issues and Practices: Contemporary Educational Leadership (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Students explore the history and emergent relationships among leadership theories/practice and their application to current educational settings. Students will reflect on and refine their personal theory of leadership. Effective: 2009 Fall

EDU 282B—Beginning Issues and Practices: Diversity Issues for Educational Leaders (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. The diversity of stakeholders and community issues in California schools and colleges will be explored. Emphasis will be placed on the interaction between underrepresented segments of society and educational institutions. Best Practices in leading diverse schools will be explored. Effective: 2010 Winter Quarter.

EDU 283A—Advanced Issues and Practices: Leadership Across Communities (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Students examine the theory/practice/process of leadership in community-building and collaboration in/across communities, while addressing the utilization of human and material resources and the creation of partnerships, community linkages, and collaborative efforts. Effective: 2010 Spring Quarter.

EDU 283B—Advanced Issues and Practices: Leadership and Student Services (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Practical and theoretical perspectives for building a sense of vision to lead the profession of student affairs and to meet the needs of the whole student. Effective: 2010 Spring Quarter.

EDU 284A—Policy: History and Theory of Educational Policy (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Students learn/analyze the history/theory of educational policy. They see how education leaders have/can positively influence the process and implement effective policies in their local institutions. Policy issues covered: educational opportunity, equity, access, regulation, testing, tenure, accountability. Effective: 2009 Fall Quarter.

EDU 284B—Policy: Formulating and Influencing Policy (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Students will conduct critical analyses of policy at the federal, judicial, state, regional and local levels. Specific California and federal policy environment structures, processes and people will be examined for intended consequences, ethical dilemmas, social justice and equity issues. Effective: 2010 Winter Quarter.

EDU 284C—Policy: Possibilities and Limitations of Educational Policy in a Democracy (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Students will critically examine the democratic purposes of education in light of existing National, State, and local policy reform efforts. Questions like, In what ways are these reforms and policies guided by democratic ideas and challenged by those ideals. Effective: 2010 Winter Quarter.

EDU 287—CANDEL Dissertation Seminars (6-12) Variable—18-36 hours. Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Third year seminars encourage students to complete dissertations within the year. Cohort members meet together in every three-week meetings with faculty members and share their writing, data collection, analysis, discussion of results, development of conclusions/implications. May be repeated up to 9 time(s) until completion of dissertation. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2009 Fall Quarter.

EDU 287D—CANDEL Dissertation (6-12) Variable—18-36 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Passing of qualifying exams in CANDEL program and advancement to candidacy. Cohort members continue to meet with faculty and share their writing, data collection, analysis, development of conclusions/implications. May be repeated up to 9 time(s) until completion of dissertation. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 291—Proseminar in Education (4) Fieldwork—3 hours; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Admission to the M.A. or Ph.D. graduate program in Education. Professional induction into educational research field and Graduate Group in Education at UC Davis. Introduction to landscape of educational research methodologies, purposes and theories. Analysis of debates within field. Investigation of K-12 educational outreach efforts at UC Davis. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) May take the course one time as an MA student and one time as a PhD student. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 292—Special Topics in Education (2-4) Variable—2-4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Selected topics in education. Designed to facilitate preparation for the qualifying examination or dissertation. Students will critically analyze scholarly work including their own works in progress. May be repeated for credit. Effective:

EDU 294—Special Topics in Science, Agriculture and Mathematics Education (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Critical study of special topics of research relevant to science, agricultural and mathematics education. Students and faculty present work-inprogress on a major research project, and critically analyze and discuss one another's developing scholarly work. May be repeated for credit topic differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 295—Special Topics in Learning and Mind Science (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Critical study of selected issues in the learning sciences, neurodevelopmental disorders, and psychometrics and measurement, as they relate to education. May be repeated for credit when topics differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 298—Group Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group study. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2016

EDU 299—Individual Study (1-6) Variable—3-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Individual study under the direction of a faculty member. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 299D—Research (1-12) Independent Study—3-36 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Research for individual graduate students. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 300—Reading in the Elementary School (4) Fieldwork—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Principles, procedures, and curriculum materials for teaching of reading. Includes decoding skills with a special emphasis on phonics, comprehension skills, study skills, and reading in the content areas. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 301—Reading in the Secondary School (4) Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing, enrollment in the secondary credential program or consent of instructor. Principles, procedures, and materials to help secondary school teachers improve the reading competence of students. Strategies for enhancing learning through reading and writing in all disciplines, with special attention to linguistically diverse populations. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

EDU 301A—Teaching Literacy in High School Contexts (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Restricted to students enrolled in the secondary credential program. Focuses on secondary school literacy practices and strategies for engaging English-speaking and bilingual students with textual, image, and digital literacies across content areas. Covers reading and writing, the Common Core and Language Proficiency standards. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 301B—Teaching Literacy in High School Contexts (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Restricted to students enrolled in the secondary credential program. Focuses on secondary school literacy practices and strategies for engaging English-speaking and bilingual students with textual, image, and digital literacies across content areas. Covers reading and writing, the Common Core and Language Proficiency standards. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 302—Language Arts in the Elementary School (2) Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Principles, procedures, and materials for the teaching of oral and written expression, listening skills, drama, and children's literature in elementary schools. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 303—Art Education in the Elementary School (2) Laboratory—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Understanding the principles of education in the arts through participation. Development of concepts, introduction to media, and techniques suitable for the elementary school with emphasis on cross-discipline exploration. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 304A—Teaching in the Elementary Schools (2-18) Fieldwork—9-48 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular classrooms in elementary schools. Selection and organization of teaching materials. Introduction to techniques of diagnosing school achievement of children. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 304B—Teaching in the Elementary Schools (2-18) Fieldwork—9-48 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular classrooms in elementary schools. Current conceptions of elementary school curriculum, emphasis on contributions from the social, biological, and physical sciences. Emphasis on effective teaching methods. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 304C—Teaching in the Elementary Schools (2-18) Fieldwork—9-48 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular classrooms in elementary schools. Evaluation of teaching materials including instructional technology. Current elementary school curriculum with emphasis on contributions from fine arts and humanities. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 305A—Teaching in the Middle Grades (5-8) Lecture—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours; Variable—15-30 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular or special education classrooms in middle grades. Current conceptions of the middle-grades curriculum with emphasis on social, biological, and physical sciences. Effective teaching methods. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 306A—Teaching in the Secondary Schools (2-18) Fieldwork—9-48 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular secondary classrooms. Techniques for classroom communications; constructing goals and objectives; assessment of learning; special problems of adolescents; instructional technology. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 306B—Teaching in the Secondary Schools (2-18) Fieldwork—9-48 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular secondary classrooms. Techniques for classroom communications; constructing goals and objectives; assessment of learning; special problems of adolescents; instructional technology. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 306C—Teaching in the Secondary Schools (2-18) Fieldwork—9-48 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular secondary classrooms. Techniques for classroom communications; constructing goals and objectives; assessment of learning; special problems of adolescents; instructional technology. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 307—Methods in Elementary Science (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Principles, procedures, and materials for teaching the biological and physical sciences in elementary schools. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 308—Methods in Elementary Social Studies (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Principles, procedures, and materials for teaching history and the social sciences in elementary schools. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 309—The Teaching of Mathematics, K-9 (3) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Mathematics curriculum and teaching methods for K-9 reflecting the needs of California's diverse student populations. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 310—Teaching as Reflective Practice (1) Lecture/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Presentation of issues related to classroom instruction and professional practice, reflections on classroom instruction and other documentation related to student teaching experience. May be repeated up to 6 time(s). Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 320—Creating Classroom Communities (1) Fieldwork—30 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Observation of classrooms at beginning of academic year for first-hand experience with teachers’ approaches to creating communities and setting routines. Candidates are placed with students they will teach during student teaching. Candidates may take on teaching tasks as appropriate. Effective: 2016 Summer Special Session.

EDU 322A—Pedagogical Preparation for Secondary Social Science I (3) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Introduction to teaching methods and curriculum approaches for secondary social science teaching. State and national curriculum standards; application of learning theory to effective instruction; interdisciplinary teaching and active learning approaches; effective teaching strategies for English learners. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 322B—Pedagogical Preparation for Secondary Social Science II (3) Discussion—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Intermediate teaching methods and curriculum approaches for secondary social science teaching. Interdisciplinary approaches to teaching major themes across social science content areas; teaching potentially controversial social science topics; teaching democratic civic values, student assessment and evaluation. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 323A—Physical Science in the Secondary School (3) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Discussion/Laboratory—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Activity-based overview of concepts and processes in secondary school physical sciences. Emphasis upon philosophy, appropriate teaching methods, materials, assessment and evaluation of learning. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 323B—Life Sciences in the Secondary School (3) Discussion/Laboratory—2 hours; Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Activity-based overview of concepts and processes in secondary school biology and life sciences. Emphasis on philosophy, appropriate teaching methods, materials, assessment and evaluation of learning, and issues. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 324A—Methods and Technology in Secondary Mathematics I (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Introduction to methods and curriculum for teaching mathematics at the secondary level. Introduction to applications of computer technology as instructional, intellectual, and communication tools for mathematics teachers. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 324B—Methods in Secondary Mathematics II (3) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Expansion of methods and curriculum for teaching mathematics at the secondary level. Intermediate applications of computer technology as instructional, intellectual, and communication tools in mathematics teaching. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 325—Research and Methods in Secondary English Language Arts (4) Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Research on teaching and learning in the language arts. Principles, procedures and materials for improving the writing, reading and oral language of secondary students, with special attention to students from culturally and linguistically diverse populations. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 327A—Teaching Methods for Secondary Foreign Language/Spanish, Part I (3) Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Introduction to methods for teaching Spanish as a foreign and a heritage language in secondary schools. State and National Standards. Theories on second language acquisition. Lesson plans. Effective teaching strategies and class management. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 327B—Teaching Methods for Secondary Foreign Language/Spanish, Part II (3) Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Continuation to methods for teaching Spanish as a foreign and a heritage language in secondary schools. Research and practice on foreign and heritage language teaching. Expansion of effective teaching strategies and class management. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 398—Group Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

EDU 399—Individual Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

EDU 081—Learning in Science and Mathematics (2) Fieldwork—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Limited to 26 students per section. Exploration of how students learn and develop understanding in science and mathematics classrooms. Introduction to case studies and interview techniques and their use in K-6 classrooms to illuminate factors that affect student learning. (GEL 081.) (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2007 Winter Quarter.

EDU 092—Internship (1-3) Internship—3-9 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Enrollment dependent on availability of intern placements. Internship as a teacher’s aide or tutor in K-12 classrooms under the supervision of a faculty member. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2001

EDU 098—Directed Group Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Primarily for lower division students. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

EDU 100—Introduction to Schools (4) Fieldwork—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Study of occupational concerns of teachers; skills for observing classroom activities; school organization and finance; school reform movement; observing, aiding, and tutoring in schools. GE credit: ACGH, DD, OL, SS. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 110—Educational Psychology: General (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Learning processes, cognitive development, individual differences, testing and evaluation. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 114—Quantitative Methods in Educational Research (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Problems and methods in data analysis. Design of research projects. Some consideration of procedures suited to digital computers. GE credit: QL. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 115—Educating Children with Disabilities (2) Lecture—2 hours. Educational issues and processes involved in teaching children with disabilities. The course will focus on the structure of special education, with an emphasis on meeting the educational needs of children who are mainstreamed in regular classes. GE credit: SS. Effective:

EDU 119—The Use and Misuse of Standardized Tests (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Principles underlying educational and psychological testing. Purposes of testing for individual achievement and evaluation of school programs. Interpretation and misinterpretations of outcomes. Analysis of SAT, GRE and other common tests. Experience in test administration and outcome interpretation. GE credit: QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 120—Philosophical and Social Foundations of Education (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Philosophical, historical, and sociological study of education and the school in our society. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 121—Introduction to Education Policy Analysis: Tools, Methods and Frameworks (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Introduces students to the field of education policy analysis with a specific emphasis on the quantitative frameworks and analytical tools—drawn primarily from economics and statistics—that are used to guide and inform educational policymaking. GE credit: QL, SS. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

EDU 122—Children, Learning and Material Culture (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion—1 hour; Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. How material artifacts shape what and how children learn in school, at home, and in the community. Artifacts examined include books, computers, household appliances, toys and games, entertainment media, collectibles, sports equipment, clothing, folk arts and crafts, and neighborhood space. GE credit: SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2017 Summer Session 1.

EDU 130—Issues in Higher Education (4) Discussion—3 hours; Fieldwork—3 hours. Analysis of current issues in higher education and of some practical implications of varying philosophical approaches to the role of the university. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2017 Summer Session 1.

EDU 142—Introduction to Environmental Education (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Study of history, philosophy, principles and approaches to environmental education (EE) and outreach; learning theories, teaching strategies and techniques in EE and outreach; evaluation of EE curricula in non-formal and in-school contexts; observing, aiding and facilitating local environmental education programs. GE credit: OL, SS. Effective: 2009

EDU 150—Cultural Diversity and Education in a Sociopolitical Context (4) Extensive Writing; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Introduction to cultural diversity and education in a sociopolitical context. Interactive course. Small and large-group discussions explore, extend, and apply readings; range of writing genres for responses to assignments and course themes; lectures, slide shows, speakers, brief fieldwork, and presentations. GE credit: DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2011

EDU 151—Language Development in the Chicano Child (3) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Bilingualism, first and second language acquisition, bilingual education, language assessment, Chicano Spanish and the role of dialect varieties in the classroom. Not open for credit to students who have completed EDU 151T. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 151T—Language Development in the Chicano Child (3) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teaching Credential Program. Open to UC Davis Teacher Credential candidates only. Bilingualism, first and second language acquisition, bilingual education, language assessment, Chicano Spanish and the role of dialect varieties in the classroom. Not open for credit to students who have completed EDU 151. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 152—Academic Spanish for Bilingual Teachers (3) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Recitation—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teaching Credential Program or consent of instructor. Communicative class taught in Spanish focused on the development of Spanish communication skills for current and/or future bilingual teachers. Main topics are related to school content areas in bilingual settings, with an emphasis on standard and Southwest Spanish dialects. GE credit: AH, OL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 153—Diversity in the K-12 Classroom (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teaching Credential Program. Analysis of research on learning styles among culturally diverse students with review and evaluation of responsive curricula and classroom teaching techniques. The ethnographic interview as a research tool. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 160A—Introduction to Peer Counseling (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Introduction to peer counseling techniques and development of peer counseling skills. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 160B—Issues in Peer Counseling (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. In-depth review and development of skills for specific counseling topics. May be repeated once for credit when topic differs. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) May be repeated once for credit when topic differs. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 163—Guidance and Counseling (4) Lecture—4 hours. Nature and scope of pupil personnel services; basic tools and techniques of guidance; theory and practice of counseling psychology, with emphasis on educational and vocational adjustment. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 173—Language Development (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): LIN 001 or LIN 001Y; or Consent of Instructor. LIN 103A, LIN 103B recommended. Theory and research on children's acquisition of their native language, including the sound system, grammatical systems, and basic semantic categories. (LIN 173.) GE credit: SS. Effective: 2018 Spring Quarter.

EDU 180A—Computers in Education (1) Laboratory—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—1 hour; Project (Term Project)—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Restricted to Teaching Credential Majors. Applications of computers in education as instructional, intellectual, and communication tools. Effective: 2013

EDU 180B—Computers in Education (1) Laboratory—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—1 hour; Project (Term Project)—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): EDU 180A; Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Restricted to Teaching Credential Majors. Applications of computers in education as instructional, intellectual, and communication tools. Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

EDU 180C—Computers in Education (1) Laboratory—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—1 hour; Project (Term Project)—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): EDU 180B; Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Restricted to Teaching Credential Majors. Applications of computers in education as instructional, intellectual, and communication tools. Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

EDU 181—Teaching in Science and Mathematics (2) Fieldwork—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Major in mathematics, science, or engineering; or completion of a one-year sequence of science or calculus. Class size limited to 40 students per section. Exploration of effective teaching practices based on examination of how middle school students learn math and science. Selected readings, discussion and field experience in middle school classrooms. (GEL 181.) (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

EDU 182—Computer Project for Curricular Integration (1) Seminar—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Design and implementation of a curricular unit to integrate computer technology into a K-12 classroom setting. A project-based seminar intended for students with substantial prior experience with instructional use of computers and related technologies. Not open for credit to students who have completed EDU 180 or EDU 181. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 183—Teaching High School Mathematics and Science (3) Review all entries Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Major in mathematics, science, or engineering; or consent of instructor with completion of a one-year sequence of science or calculus. Limited to 40 students per section. Exploration and creation of effective teaching practices based on examination of how high school students learn mathematics and science. Field experience in high school classrooms. (Geology 183.) GE credit: OL, SS, WE. Effective: 2017 Fall Quarter.

EDU 183—Teaching High School Mathematics and Science (3) Review all entries Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Major in mathematics, science, or engineering; or completion of a one-year sequence of science or calculus and consent of the instructor. Limited to 40 students per section. Exploration and creation of effective teaching practices based on examination of how high school students learn mathematics and science. Field experience in high school classrooms. (GEL 183.) GE credit: OL, SS, WE. Effective: 2018 Fall

EDU 185—Learning in a Digital Age: Information, Schooling, and Society (4) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours; Lecture/Lab—2 hours. Focus on the changing nature of learning in a digital age: social media, ubiquitous connectivity, online education, electronic communication, writing, gaming, and youth culture. Readings will be drawn from major recent works detailing fundamental shifts in information, schooling, and society. GE credit: OL, SS, VL. Effective: 2013

EDU 192—Internship (1-3) Discussion—1 hour; Internship—2-8 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Internship as a tutor, teacher's aide, or peer counselor in a school or educational counseling setting under the supervision of a faculty member. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016

EDU 197T—Tutoring in Education (1-2) Tutorial—1-2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Leading of small voluntary discussion groups affiliated with the School's upper division courses under the supervision of, and at the option of, the course instructor, who will submit a written evaluation of the student's work. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) for a total of 4 units. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 198—Directed Group Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

EDU 199—Special Study for Advanced Undergraduates (1-5) Variable—3-15 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016

EDU 200—Educational Research (4) Discussion—2 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Introductory statistics or consent of instructor. Defining educational research questions, reviewing relevant literature, developing research designs, developing research instruments, selecting appropriate data analysis procedures, and writing research projects. A case problem will provide practice in designing and reporting research. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 201—Qualitative Research in Education (4) Lecture—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing or consent of instructor. Examines the design and conduct of educational research using non-numerical data (e.g., text, discourse, imagery and artifacts). Focuses on issues (e.g., validity, reliability, generalizability, ethics) and reporting genres (e.g., narrative accounts, case studies, and arguments). Effective:

EDU 202N—Computer Analysis of Qualitative Data (4) Laboratory—2 hours; Seminar—3 hours. Critical and practical understanding of how to use computer software programs to analyze qualitative data (text, images, and videotape) in conducting social research. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 203—Educational Testing and Evaluation (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing or consent of instructor. Introduces the theoretical assumptions underlying traditional test construction, as well as the basic statistical principles involved in the design, evaluation, and interpretation of standardized tests. Also introduces the debates surrounding the uses of different kinds of tests and evaluation tools. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

EDU 204B—Quantitative Methods in Educational Research: Experimental Designs (4) Discussion—2 hours; Discussion/Laboratory—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Introductory statistics or consent of instructor. Methods for analysis of experimental data in educational research. Topics include ANOVA, fixed v. random effects models, repeated measures ANOVA, analysis of covariance, MANOVA, chi square tests, small sample solutions to t and ANOVA. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 205A—Ethnographic Research in Schools I: Current Theory and Practice (4) Lecture—4 hours. Current literature from anthropology and society related to schools.Emphasis on the organizational structure of institutions,and the analysis of face-to-face interaction.Will explore the relationship between field-based research and theory development on the acquisition of knowledge in specific social and cultural contexts. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 205B—Ethnographic Research in Schools II: Field-Based Research Projects (4) Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): EDU 205A Student research projects in specific schools with cooperative critical analysis of the design, data collection, and inferencing by researchers. Students will continue to meet with instructor as a group throughout the quarter to discuss specific projects. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 206A—Inquiry into Classroom Practice: Traditions and Approaches (2) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Introduction to traditions and approaches of teachers conducting research in their own classrooms: purposes, focal areas, methods of data collection and analysis, and written genre conventions. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 206C—Inquiry into Classroom Practice: Study Design (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): EDU 206B; or Consent of Instructor. Open to Graduate MA Credential students. Proposal development for classroom-based inquiry designed to address student learning needs. Mixed methods research design and preliminary data collection approaches. Design and application of baseline student assessment for proposal development. Literature review. Data collection in K-12 classrooms required. Effective: 2007 Spring Quarter.

EDU 206D—Inquiry into Classroom Practice: Data Analysis and Research Reporting (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion—1 hour; Fieldwork—1 hour; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): EDU 206C; or Consent of Instructor. Open to Graduate MA Credential students. Support of the inquiry begun in course 206C through continuous collaborative critique and feedback resulting in the writing and presentation of a research study. Effective: 2007 Winter Quarter.

EDU 207—Concepts of the Curriculum (4) Discussion—2 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Development of the skills of philosophical analysis and argument for the establishment of a point of view, in the consideration of curriculum theory and practice. Classical and contemporary approaches to subject matter and activity emphases, hidden curriculum, and moral education. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 208—Presenting Educational Research in Written Reports (4) Extensive Writing; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Rhetorical and substantive challenges of presenting educational research through written reports; research rhetoric and genres; competing discourse conventions of educational research, policy, and practice; the social organization of publishing educational research. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 209—Image-based Field Research (4) Fieldwork—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Critical and practical understanding of video tape and still photography as resources for enhancing field research in schools and other social setting. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 210—Psychological Perspectives on School Learning (4) Extensive Writing; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Study of human learning theory and research related to learning of academic content. Review of contemporary issues of constructivism, problem solving, expertise, conceptual change, transfer, and metacognition. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 211—Sociocultural and Situative Perspectives on Learning and Cognition (4) Extensive Writing; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Sociocultural and situative theories of cognition and learning. Major ideas of L.S. Vygotsky, followed by modern perspectives: situated cognition, cognitive apprenticeship, situated learning, communities of practice, cultural-historical activity theory, and distributed cognition. Implications of each theoretical perspective for educational practice. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 213—Individual Assessment (4) Lecture—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Introductory statistics or consent of instructor. Theories of intellectual functioning and the measurement of cognitive abilities in school-aged children. Supervised practice in administration and scoring of contemporary tests for children including the WISC-R, the WAIS-R, the Stanford Binet, the McCarthy Scales of Children's Ability. Effective: 2016

EDU 215—Research on Achievement Motivation in Education (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Analysis and critique of recent research on cognitive processes related to achievement motivation in school settings. Topics include self-determination theory, attribution theory, goal theory, intrinsic and extrinsic motivation, learned helplessness. psychological reactance, gender and culture, and research design. Effective:

EDU 220—Concepts and Methods of Policy Analysis (4) Fieldwork; Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Introduction to concepts and methods of policy analysis. Emphasis on the relationship between educational issues and problems; policy development; constructing persuasive policy analyses; issues related to policy process. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 221—Culture and Social Organization of Schools (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Culture and social organization of schools. Examines perspectives of social researchers, educational policy-makers, and school members and their implications for educational research, policy and practice. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 222—School Change and Educational Reform (4) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Analysis of models, processes, and case studies of school change and educational reform with respect to variable characteristics of schools and schooling, planned and unplanned change, the moral evaluation of school change, and the role of educational research. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 223—Education and Social Policy (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Focuses on understanding the social and political context of education in the U.S. and California and how education policy is formed in the broader public arena. Develops skills in educational policy analysis. (Former course 237.) Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 225—Education Policy and Law (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Examination of law as an instrument of social policy. Specific focus on the legalization of education decision making, its causes, dimensions, and effects on administrative and teacher authority. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 226—Culture and Social Organization of Higher Education (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Critical study of culture and social organization of higher education institutions policies and functions in the U.S., with some attention to other countries. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 228—Politics and Governance of Education (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Examination of political power, representation, influence, decisionmaking and inter-governmental relations in the public schools. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 229—Education Finance Policy (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Examination of (1) United States financing public education, (2) the relationship between school finance and education policy, and (3) the relationship between education finance and education practice. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 230—Special Topics in Education Policy (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Selected topics in education policy. Designed to facilitate preparation for the qualifying examination or dissertation. Students will critically analyze scholarly work including their own works in progress. May be repeated for credit for credit when topic differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 235—Critical Pedagogy (4) Seminar—4 hours. A socio-cultural critique, from an interdisciplinary perspective, of educational reform and change. The critique will include an analysis of the influence of text content on the perpetuation of social power differences. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 236—Application of Hierarchical Linear Models in Education Research (4) Discussion/Laboratory—2 hours; Lecture—2 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): EDU 204A; Or similar course with permission of the instructor. Application of hierarchical linear models in education research across multiple areas, such as policy, curriculum, and assessment. Develop working knowledge of hierarchical linear modeling and an understanding of its use in existing research as well as student's work. Effective: 2009 Spring Quarter.

EDU 237—Survey Research Methods (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Theories, principles and application of survey research methodology. Students develop, validate, and administer survey instruments; select representative samples; conduct focus groups; and collect, organize, and analyze survey data. Familiarity with introductory concepts in descriptive and inferential statistics is assumed. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 238—Participatory Action Research (PAR) (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Introductory research methods course recommended. Principles and strategies of PAR and related methodologies that emphasize collaborating with those affected by the issue being researched in order to educate, take action or effect social change. Conduct interviews with potential collaborators, case analyses and research proposals. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 239—Interview Methods (4) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): EDU 201 or equivalent course recommended. Introduction to qualitative interviewing, focused in particular on narrative and selfstory as both practical method and theoretical stance. Students complete a case-focused interview project during the course: designing an interview protocol, conducting the interview, transcribing, analyzing, and presenting their research. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

EDU 242—Research on Text Comprehension (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Analysis of recent research related to cognitive processing of written texts. Topics include word decoding, schema theory, background knowledge, assimilation, accommodation, working memory, processing depth, vocabulary acquisition, sentence-level processes, text-level processes, text structure, implications for curriculum and instruction. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 243—Research on the Teaching and Learning of Writing (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Study of issues in research on composition; history of composition studies; data analysis techniques; product and process approaches; cognitive and social perspectives. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 244—Topical Seminar in Language, Literacy and Culture (4) Project (Term Project)—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Critical study of selected issues of language, literacy, and culture as they relate to education. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) topics differ. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 245—Theory and Research in Early Literacy (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Analysis of children's initial processes in learning to read extending from the preschool years into second grade. Topics include emergent literacy, phonological awareness, word recognition, decoding, spelling, vocabulary, comprehension, second language reading, assessment, intervention, and instruction. GE credit: SS. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 246—Reading as a Social and Cultural Process (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): EDU 211 recommended. Recent theoretical and empirical work on reading in social contexts. Topics include reading as an individual interactive process; reading as a social and cultural process; critical perspectives on reading; implications of contrastive theoretical perspectives for curriculum and instruction in reading. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 247—Research on Response to Culturally Diverse Literature, K-12 (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Research on response to culturally diverse literature in classrooms and other K-12 settings. Topics include reader response theories, values in expanding the literary canon, problems of cultural authenticity, resistance to multicultural literature, and instruction for diverse texts and learners. Effective: 2006 Fall Quarter.

EDU 248—Academic Language and Literacies (4) Fieldwork; Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours. Exploration of theories and research on academic language and literacies for the schooling of first and second language learners. Students use basic qualitative methods to collect and analyze classroom language and literacy data. Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

EDU 249—Discourse Analysis in Educational Settings (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): An introductory linguistics or sociolinguistics course or consent of instructor. Examines form and type in discourse (e.g., narration, conversation, routines), approaches to discourse analysis, and research on classroom discourse (lessons, teaching/learning interactional sequences). Final term paper is an analysis of discourse data taperecorded by student in a field setting. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 251—Research in Bilingual and Second Language Education (3) Seminar—3 hours. Discussion and analysis of recent research in bilingual and second language education. Topics include:language acquisition in second language learners and bilinguals, second language teaching methods, language-use models in bilingual education, interaction analysis in bilingual/cross-cultural classrooms,use of the vernacular in classrooms. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 253—Language and Literacy in Linguistic Minorities (3) Fieldwork—3 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Analysis and application of research on oral language development and literacy in language minority students, through the development, implementation, and evaluation of research-based language arts curriculum. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 255—Curriculum Development and Evaluation in Mathematics (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Analysis of curricular issues and goals in mathematics education, including long-term trends, current status and influences, proposed changes, and evaluation issues. Selected curriculum projects will be examined. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 256A—Research in Mathematics Education (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Examination of research process in mathematics education; review of critical productive problems identified by researchers; evolution of trends, issues, theories and hypotheses in various areas of mathematics education research. Course emphasizes foundations. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 256B—Research in Mathematics Education (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Current research issues and activities in mathematics education: status, trends, theories and hypotheses. Formulation of research questions and design of studies. Projection of future directions for research. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 257—Computer Technology in Mathematics Education (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Roles of calculators, computers, and graphing calculators in mathematics education will be addressed, with emphasis on the impact of these technologies on curriculum reform. Selected efforts to integrate technology into mathematics instruction will be examined. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 260—The Modern History of Science Education (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. History of curricular issues and goals in science education from the late 19th century forward, including long-term trends, current status and influences, proposed changes, and evaluation issues. National science standards and curriculum projects. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 262A—Research Topics in Science Education I (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Research process and product in science education; review of critical science education issues; evolution of trends, theories and hypotheses in various areas of science education research. Survey of current major research in science education. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 262B—Research Topics in Science Education II (4) Seminar—4 hours. Current research issues and activities in science education: status, trends, theories and hypotheses. Formulation of research questions, design of studies and critical, in-depth review of literature related to the student's research interests. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 264—Scientific Literacy and Science Education Reform (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Current trends in science education reform locally, regionally, and nationally focusing on scientific literacy. Equity, access and "science for all." Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 270—Research on Teacher Education and Development (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours. Research on teacher preparation in university credential programs and on professional development of in-service teachers, with special attention to teacher preparation for work with culturally and linguistically diverse youth. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 271—Supervision of Student Teachers: Research, Theory & Practice (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Research, theory and practice in the preparation and supervision of teachers. Practice in the supervision of candidates in university teaching credential programs during the student teaching field placement and the mentoring of novice teachers by expert teachers. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 280A—Inquiry and Practice: Qualitative Research for Educational Leaders (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Prepares students to understand the nature/assumptions/logic of qualitative methodology as applied to educational settings, focusing on issues of design/conceptualization/ interpretation/application of qualitative research procedures. Students will use these methods in conducting studies in their educational settings. Effective: 2009

EDU 280B—Inquiry and Practice: Quantitative Research for Educational Leaders (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Field-based and general quantitative research methods in education will focus this course. Students acquire skills and knowledge to collect, organize, analyze, and interpret univariate and multivariate quantitative data in educational research, dissertation projects, and field-based projects. Effective: 2010 Winter Quarter.

EDU 281A—Problem-Based Learning Courses: Part 1 (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion; Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Students identify problems from their educational settings, engage in data collection/analysis, write-up the process/results, and present to class. Work may become a dissertation proposal, if the problem or its extension is of sufficient interest and value. Effective: 2009 Fall Quarter.

EDU 281B—Problem-Based Learning Courses: Part 2 (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion; Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Continuation of part one. Effective: 2010

EDU 281C—Problem-Based Learning Courses: Part 3 (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion; Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Continuation of part two. Effective: 2010

EDU 282A—Beginning Issues and Practices: Contemporary Educational Leadership (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Students explore the history and emergent relationships among leadership theories/practice and their application to current educational settings. Students will reflect on and refine their personal theory of leadership. Effective: 2009 Fall

EDU 282B—Beginning Issues and Practices: Diversity Issues for Educational Leaders (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. The diversity of stakeholders and community issues in California schools and colleges will be explored. Emphasis will be placed on the interaction between underrepresented segments of society and educational institutions. Best Practices in leading diverse schools will be explored. Effective: 2010 Winter Quarter.

EDU 283A—Advanced Issues and Practices: Leadership Across Communities (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Students examine the theory/practice/process of leadership in community-building and collaboration in/across communities, while addressing the utilization of human and material resources and the creation of partnerships, community linkages, and collaborative efforts. Effective: 2010 Spring Quarter.

EDU 283B—Advanced Issues and Practices: Leadership and Student Services (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Practical and theoretical perspectives for building a sense of vision to lead the profession of student affairs and to meet the needs of the whole student. Effective: 2010 Spring Quarter.

EDU 284A—Policy: History and Theory of Educational Policy (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Students learn/analyze the history/theory of educational policy. They see how education leaders have/can positively influence the process and implement effective policies in their local institutions. Policy issues covered: educational opportunity, equity, access, regulation, testing, tenure, accountability. Effective: 2009 Fall Quarter.

EDU 284B—Policy: Formulating and Influencing Policy (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Students will conduct critical analyses of policy at the federal, judicial, state, regional and local levels. Specific California and federal policy environment structures, processes and people will be examined for intended consequences, ethical dilemmas, social justice and equity issues. Effective: 2010 Winter Quarter.

EDU 284C—Policy: Possibilities and Limitations of Educational Policy in a Democracy (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Students will critically examine the democratic purposes of education in light of existing National, State, and local policy reform efforts. Questions like, In what ways are these reforms and policies guided by democratic ideas and challenged by those ideals. Effective: 2010 Winter Quarter.

EDU 287—CANDEL Dissertation Seminars (6-12) Variable—18-36 hours. Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Third year seminars encourage students to complete dissertations within the year. Cohort members meet together in every three-week meetings with faculty members and share their writing, data collection, analysis, discussion of results, development of conclusions/implications. May be repeated up to 9 time(s) until completion of dissertation. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2009 Fall Quarter.

EDU 287D—CANDEL Dissertation (6-12) Variable—18-36 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Passing of qualifying exams in CANDEL program and advancement to candidacy. Cohort members continue to meet with faculty and share their writing, data collection, analysis, development of conclusions/implications. May be repeated up to 9 time(s) until completion of dissertation. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 291—Proseminar in Education (4) Fieldwork—3 hours; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Admission to the M.A. or Ph.D. graduate program in Education. Professional induction into educational research field and Graduate Group in Education at UC Davis. Introduction to landscape of educational research methodologies, purposes and theories. Analysis of debates within field. Investigation of K-12 educational outreach efforts at UC Davis. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) May take the course one time as an MA student and one time as a PhD student. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 292—Special Topics in Education (2-4) Variable—2-4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Selected topics in education. Designed to facilitate preparation for the qualifying examination or dissertation. Students will critically analyze scholarly work including their own works in progress. May be repeated for credit. Effective:

EDU 294—Special Topics in Science, Agriculture and Mathematics Education (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Critical study of special topics of research relevant to science, agricultural and mathematics education. Students and faculty present work-inprogress on a major research project, and critically analyze and discuss one another's developing scholarly work. May be repeated for credit topic differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 295—Special Topics in Learning and Mind Science (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Critical study of selected issues in the learning sciences, neurodevelopmental disorders, and psychometrics and measurement, as they relate to education. May be repeated for credit when topics differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 298—Group Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group study. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2016

EDU 299—Individual Study (1-6) Variable—3-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Individual study under the direction of a faculty member. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 299D—Research (1-12) Independent Study—3-36 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Research for individual graduate students. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 300—Reading in the Elementary School (4) Fieldwork—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Principles, procedures, and curriculum materials for teaching of reading. Includes decoding skills with a special emphasis on phonics, comprehension skills, study skills, and reading in the content areas. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 301—Reading in the Secondary School (4) Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing, enrollment in the secondary credential program or consent of instructor. Principles, procedures, and materials to help secondary school teachers improve the reading competence of students. Strategies for enhancing learning through reading and writing in all disciplines, with special attention to linguistically diverse populations. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

EDU 301A—Teaching Literacy in High School Contexts (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Restricted to students enrolled in the secondary credential program. Focuses on secondary school literacy practices and strategies for engaging English-speaking and bilingual students with textual, image, and digital literacies across content areas. Covers reading and writing, the Common Core and Language Proficiency standards. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 301B—Teaching Literacy in High School Contexts (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Restricted to students enrolled in the secondary credential program. Focuses on secondary school literacy practices and strategies for engaging English-speaking and bilingual students with textual, image, and digital literacies across content areas. Covers reading and writing, the Common Core and Language Proficiency standards. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 302—Language Arts in the Elementary School (2) Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Principles, procedures, and materials for the teaching of oral and written expression, listening skills, drama, and children's literature in elementary schools. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 303—Art Education in the Elementary School (2) Laboratory—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Understanding the principles of education in the arts through participation. Development of concepts, introduction to media, and techniques suitable for the elementary school with emphasis on cross-discipline exploration. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 304A—Teaching in the Elementary Schools (2-18) Fieldwork—9-48 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular classrooms in elementary schools. Selection and organization of teaching materials. Introduction to techniques of diagnosing school achievement of children. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 304B—Teaching in the Elementary Schools (2-18) Fieldwork—9-48 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular classrooms in elementary schools. Current conceptions of elementary school curriculum, emphasis on contributions from the social, biological, and physical sciences. Emphasis on effective teaching methods. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 304C—Teaching in the Elementary Schools (2-18) Fieldwork—9-48 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular classrooms in elementary schools. Evaluation of teaching materials including instructional technology. Current elementary school curriculum with emphasis on contributions from fine arts and humanities. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 305A—Teaching in the Middle Grades (5-8) Lecture—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours; Variable—15-30 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular or special education classrooms in middle grades. Current conceptions of the middle-grades curriculum with emphasis on social, biological, and physical sciences. Effective teaching methods. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 306A—Teaching in the Secondary Schools (2-18) Fieldwork—9-48 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular secondary classrooms. Techniques for classroom communications; constructing goals and objectives; assessment of learning; special problems of adolescents; instructional technology. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 306B—Teaching in the Secondary Schools (2-18) Fieldwork—9-48 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular secondary classrooms. Techniques for classroom communications; constructing goals and objectives; assessment of learning; special problems of adolescents; instructional technology. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 306C—Teaching in the Secondary Schools (2-18) Fieldwork—9-48 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular secondary classrooms. Techniques for classroom communications; constructing goals and objectives; assessment of learning; special problems of adolescents; instructional technology. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 307—Methods in Elementary Science (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Principles, procedures, and materials for teaching the biological and physical sciences in elementary schools. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 308—Methods in Elementary Social Studies (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Principles, procedures, and materials for teaching history and the social sciences in elementary schools. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 309—The Teaching of Mathematics, K-9 (3) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Mathematics curriculum and teaching methods for K-9 reflecting the needs of California's diverse student populations. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 310—Teaching as Reflective Practice (1) Lecture/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Presentation of issues related to classroom instruction and professional practice, reflections on classroom instruction and other documentation related to student teaching experience. May be repeated up to 6 time(s). Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 320—Creating Classroom Communities (1) Fieldwork—30 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Observation of classrooms at beginning of academic year for first-hand experience with teachers’ approaches to creating communities and setting routines. Candidates are placed with students they will teach during student teaching. Candidates may take on teaching tasks as appropriate. Effective: 2016 Summer Special Session.

EDU 322A—Pedagogical Preparation for Secondary Social Science I (3) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Introduction to teaching methods and curriculum approaches for secondary social science teaching. State and national curriculum standards; application of learning theory to effective instruction; interdisciplinary teaching and active learning approaches; effective teaching strategies for English learners. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 322B—Pedagogical Preparation for Secondary Social Science II (3) Discussion—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Intermediate teaching methods and curriculum approaches for secondary social science teaching. Interdisciplinary approaches to teaching major themes across social science content areas; teaching potentially controversial social science topics; teaching democratic civic values, student assessment and evaluation. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 323A—Physical Science in the Secondary School (3) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Discussion/Laboratory—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Activity-based overview of concepts and processes in secondary school physical sciences. Emphasis upon philosophy, appropriate teaching methods, materials, assessment and evaluation of learning. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 323B—Life Sciences in the Secondary School (3) Discussion/Laboratory—2 hours; Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Activity-based overview of concepts and processes in secondary school biology and life sciences. Emphasis on philosophy, appropriate teaching methods, materials, assessment and evaluation of learning, and issues. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 324A—Methods and Technology in Secondary Mathematics I (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Introduction to methods and curriculum for teaching mathematics at the secondary level. Introduction to applications of computer technology as instructional, intellectual, and communication tools for mathematics teachers. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 324B—Methods in Secondary Mathematics II (3) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Expansion of methods and curriculum for teaching mathematics at the secondary level. Intermediate applications of computer technology as instructional, intellectual, and communication tools in mathematics teaching. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 325—Research and Methods in Secondary English Language Arts (4) Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Research on teaching and learning in the language arts. Principles, procedures and materials for improving the writing, reading and oral language of secondary students, with special attention to students from culturally and linguistically diverse populations. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 327A—Teaching Methods for Secondary Foreign Language/Spanish, Part I (3) Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Introduction to methods for teaching Spanish as a foreign and a heritage language in secondary schools. State and National Standards. Theories on second language acquisition. Lesson plans. Effective teaching strategies and class management. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 327B—Teaching Methods for Secondary Foreign Language/Spanish, Part II (3) Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Continuation to methods for teaching Spanish as a foreign and a heritage language in secondary schools. Research and practice on foreign and heritage language teaching. Expansion of effective teaching strategies and class management. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 398—Group Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

EDU 399—Individual Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

EDU 081—Learning in Science and Mathematics (2) Fieldwork—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Limited to 26 students per section. Exploration of how students learn and develop understanding in science and mathematics classrooms. Introduction to case studies and interview techniques and their use in K-6 classrooms to illuminate factors that affect student learning. (GEL 081.) (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2007 Winter Quarter.

EDU 092—Internship (1-3) Internship—3-9 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Enrollment dependent on availability of intern placements. Internship as a teacher’s aide or tutor in K-12 classrooms under the supervision of a faculty member. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2001

EDU 098—Directed Group Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Primarily for lower division students. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

EDU 100—Introduction to Schools (4) Fieldwork—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Study of occupational concerns of teachers; skills for observing classroom activities; school organization and finance; school reform movement; observing, aiding, and tutoring in schools. GE credit: ACGH, DD, OL, SS. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 110—Educational Psychology: General (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Learning processes, cognitive development, individual differences, testing and evaluation. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 114—Quantitative Methods in Educational Research (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Problems and methods in data analysis. Design of research projects. Some consideration of procedures suited to digital computers. GE credit: QL. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 115—Educating Children with Disabilities (2) Lecture—2 hours. Educational issues and processes involved in teaching children with disabilities. The course will focus on the structure of special education, with an emphasis on meeting the educational needs of children who are mainstreamed in regular classes. GE credit: SS. Effective:

EDU 119—The Use and Misuse of Standardized Tests (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Principles underlying educational and psychological testing. Purposes of testing for individual achievement and evaluation of school programs. Interpretation and misinterpretations of outcomes. Analysis of SAT, GRE and other common tests. Experience in test administration and outcome interpretation. GE credit: QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 120—Philosophical and Social Foundations of Education (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Philosophical, historical, and sociological study of education and the school in our society. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 121—Introduction to Education Policy Analysis: Tools, Methods and Frameworks (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Introduces students to the field of education policy analysis with a specific emphasis on the quantitative frameworks and analytical tools—drawn primarily from economics and statistics—that are used to guide and inform educational policymaking. GE credit: QL, SS. Effective: 2014 Fall Quarter.

EDU 122—Children, Learning and Material Culture (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion—1 hour; Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. How material artifacts shape what and how children learn in school, at home, and in the community. Artifacts examined include books, computers, household appliances, toys and games, entertainment media, collectibles, sports equipment, clothing, folk arts and crafts, and neighborhood space. GE credit: SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2017 Summer Session 1.

EDU 130—Issues in Higher Education (4) Discussion—3 hours; Fieldwork—3 hours. Analysis of current issues in higher education and of some practical implications of varying philosophical approaches to the role of the university. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2017 Summer Session 1.

EDU 142—Introduction to Environmental Education (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Study of history, philosophy, principles and approaches to environmental education (EE) and outreach; learning theories, teaching strategies and techniques in EE and outreach; evaluation of EE curricula in non-formal and in-school contexts; observing, aiding and facilitating local environmental education programs. GE credit: OL, SS. Effective: 2009

EDU 150—Cultural Diversity and Education in a Sociopolitical Context (4) Extensive Writing; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Introduction to cultural diversity and education in a sociopolitical context. Interactive course. Small and large-group discussions explore, extend, and apply readings; range of writing genres for responses to assignments and course themes; lectures, slide shows, speakers, brief fieldwork, and presentations. GE credit: DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2011

EDU 151—Language Development in the Chicano Child (3) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Bilingualism, first and second language acquisition, bilingual education, language assessment, Chicano Spanish and the role of dialect varieties in the classroom. Not open for credit to students who have completed EDU 151T. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 151T—Language Development in the Chicano Child (3) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teaching Credential Program. Open to UC Davis Teacher Credential candidates only. Bilingualism, first and second language acquisition, bilingual education, language assessment, Chicano Spanish and the role of dialect varieties in the classroom. Not open for credit to students who have completed EDU 151. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 152—Academic Spanish for Bilingual Teachers (3) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Recitation—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teaching Credential Program or consent of instructor. Communicative class taught in Spanish focused on the development of Spanish communication skills for current and/or future bilingual teachers. Main topics are related to school content areas in bilingual settings, with an emphasis on standard and Southwest Spanish dialects. GE credit: AH, OL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 153—Diversity in the K-12 Classroom (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teaching Credential Program. Analysis of research on learning styles among culturally diverse students with review and evaluation of responsive curricula and classroom teaching techniques. The ethnographic interview as a research tool. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 160A—Introduction to Peer Counseling (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Introduction to peer counseling techniques and development of peer counseling skills. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 160B—Issues in Peer Counseling (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. In-depth review and development of skills for specific counseling topics. May be repeated once for credit when topic differs. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) May be repeated once for credit when topic differs. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 163—Guidance and Counseling (4) Lecture—4 hours. Nature and scope of pupil personnel services; basic tools and techniques of guidance; theory and practice of counseling psychology, with emphasis on educational and vocational adjustment. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 173—Language Development (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): LIN 001 or LIN 001Y; or Consent of Instructor. LIN 103A, LIN 103B recommended. Theory and research on children's acquisition of their native language, including the sound system, grammatical systems, and basic semantic categories. (LIN 173.) GE credit: SS. Effective: 2018 Spring Quarter.

EDU 180A—Computers in Education (1) Laboratory—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—1 hour; Project (Term Project)—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Restricted to Teaching Credential Majors. Applications of computers in education as instructional, intellectual, and communication tools. Effective: 2013

EDU 180B—Computers in Education (1) Laboratory—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—1 hour; Project (Term Project)—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): EDU 180A; Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Restricted to Teaching Credential Majors. Applications of computers in education as instructional, intellectual, and communication tools. Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

EDU 180C—Computers in Education (1) Laboratory—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—1 hour; Project (Term Project)—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): EDU 180B; Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Restricted to Teaching Credential Majors. Applications of computers in education as instructional, intellectual, and communication tools. Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

EDU 181—Teaching in Science and Mathematics (2) Fieldwork—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Major in mathematics, science, or engineering; or completion of a one-year sequence of science or calculus. Class size limited to 40 students per section. Exploration of effective teaching practices based on examination of how middle school students learn math and science. Selected readings, discussion and field experience in middle school classrooms. (GEL 181.) (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

EDU 182—Computer Project for Curricular Integration (1) Seminar—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Design and implementation of a curricular unit to integrate computer technology into a K-12 classroom setting. A project-based seminar intended for students with substantial prior experience with instructional use of computers and related technologies. Not open for credit to students who have completed EDU 180 or EDU 181. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 183—Teaching High School Mathematics and Science (3) Review all entries Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Major in mathematics, science, or engineering; or consent of instructor with completion of a one-year sequence of science or calculus. Limited to 40 students per section. Exploration and creation of effective teaching practices based on examination of how high school students learn mathematics and science. Field experience in high school classrooms. (Geology 183.) GE credit: OL, SS, WE. Effective: 2017 Fall Quarter.

EDU 183—Teaching High School Mathematics and Science (3) Review all entries Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Major in mathematics, science, or engineering; or completion of a one-year sequence of science or calculus and consent of the instructor. Limited to 40 students per section. Exploration and creation of effective teaching practices based on examination of how high school students learn mathematics and science. Field experience in high school classrooms. (GEL 183.) GE credit: OL, SS, WE. Effective: 2018 Fall

EDU 185—Learning in a Digital Age: Information, Schooling, and Society (4) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours; Lecture/Lab—2 hours. Focus on the changing nature of learning in a digital age: social media, ubiquitous connectivity, online education, electronic communication, writing, gaming, and youth culture. Readings will be drawn from major recent works detailing fundamental shifts in information, schooling, and society. GE credit: OL, SS, VL. Effective: 2013

EDU 192—Internship (1-3) Discussion—1 hour; Internship—2-8 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Internship as a tutor, teacher's aide, or peer counselor in a school or educational counseling setting under the supervision of a faculty member. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016

EDU 197T—Tutoring in Education (1-2) Tutorial—1-2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Leading of small voluntary discussion groups affiliated with the School's upper division courses under the supervision of, and at the option of, the course instructor, who will submit a written evaluation of the student's work. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) for a total of 4 units. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 198—Directed Group Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

EDU 199—Special Study for Advanced Undergraduates (1-5) Variable—3-15 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 2016

EDU 200—Educational Research (4) Discussion—2 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Introductory statistics or consent of instructor. Defining educational research questions, reviewing relevant literature, developing research designs, developing research instruments, selecting appropriate data analysis procedures, and writing research projects. A case problem will provide practice in designing and reporting research. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 201—Qualitative Research in Education (4) Lecture—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing or consent of instructor. Examines the design and conduct of educational research using non-numerical data (e.g., text, discourse, imagery and artifacts). Focuses on issues (e.g., validity, reliability, generalizability, ethics) and reporting genres (e.g., narrative accounts, case studies, and arguments). Effective:

EDU 202N—Computer Analysis of Qualitative Data (4) Laboratory—2 hours; Seminar—3 hours. Critical and practical understanding of how to use computer software programs to analyze qualitative data (text, images, and videotape) in conducting social research. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 203—Educational Testing and Evaluation (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing or consent of instructor. Introduces the theoretical assumptions underlying traditional test construction, as well as the basic statistical principles involved in the design, evaluation, and interpretation of standardized tests. Also introduces the debates surrounding the uses of different kinds of tests and evaluation tools. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

EDU 204B—Quantitative Methods in Educational Research: Experimental Designs (4) Discussion—2 hours; Discussion/Laboratory—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Introductory statistics or consent of instructor. Methods for analysis of experimental data in educational research. Topics include ANOVA, fixed v. random effects models, repeated measures ANOVA, analysis of covariance, MANOVA, chi square tests, small sample solutions to t and ANOVA. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 205A—Ethnographic Research in Schools I: Current Theory and Practice (4) Lecture—4 hours. Current literature from anthropology and society related to schools.Emphasis on the organizational structure of institutions,and the analysis of face-to-face interaction.Will explore the relationship between field-based research and theory development on the acquisition of knowledge in specific social and cultural contexts. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 205B—Ethnographic Research in Schools II: Field-Based Research Projects (4) Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): EDU 205A Student research projects in specific schools with cooperative critical analysis of the design, data collection, and inferencing by researchers. Students will continue to meet with instructor as a group throughout the quarter to discuss specific projects. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 206A—Inquiry into Classroom Practice: Traditions and Approaches (2) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Introduction to traditions and approaches of teachers conducting research in their own classrooms: purposes, focal areas, methods of data collection and analysis, and written genre conventions. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 206C—Inquiry into Classroom Practice: Study Design (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): EDU 206B; or Consent of Instructor. Open to Graduate MA Credential students. Proposal development for classroom-based inquiry designed to address student learning needs. Mixed methods research design and preliminary data collection approaches. Design and application of baseline student assessment for proposal development. Literature review. Data collection in K-12 classrooms required. Effective: 2007 Spring Quarter.

EDU 206D—Inquiry into Classroom Practice: Data Analysis and Research Reporting (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion—1 hour; Fieldwork—1 hour; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): EDU 206C; or Consent of Instructor. Open to Graduate MA Credential students. Support of the inquiry begun in course 206C through continuous collaborative critique and feedback resulting in the writing and presentation of a research study. Effective: 2007 Winter Quarter.

EDU 207—Concepts of the Curriculum (4) Discussion—2 hours; Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Development of the skills of philosophical analysis and argument for the establishment of a point of view, in the consideration of curriculum theory and practice. Classical and contemporary approaches to subject matter and activity emphases, hidden curriculum, and moral education. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 208—Presenting Educational Research in Written Reports (4) Extensive Writing; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Rhetorical and substantive challenges of presenting educational research through written reports; research rhetoric and genres; competing discourse conventions of educational research, policy, and practice; the social organization of publishing educational research. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 209—Image-based Field Research (4) Fieldwork—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Critical and practical understanding of video tape and still photography as resources for enhancing field research in schools and other social setting. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 210—Psychological Perspectives on School Learning (4) Extensive Writing; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Study of human learning theory and research related to learning of academic content. Review of contemporary issues of constructivism, problem solving, expertise, conceptual change, transfer, and metacognition. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 211—Sociocultural and Situative Perspectives on Learning and Cognition (4) Extensive Writing; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Sociocultural and situative theories of cognition and learning. Major ideas of L.S. Vygotsky, followed by modern perspectives: situated cognition, cognitive apprenticeship, situated learning, communities of practice, cultural-historical activity theory, and distributed cognition. Implications of each theoretical perspective for educational practice. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 213—Individual Assessment (4) Lecture—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Introductory statistics or consent of instructor. Theories of intellectual functioning and the measurement of cognitive abilities in school-aged children. Supervised practice in administration and scoring of contemporary tests for children including the WISC-R, the WAIS-R, the Stanford Binet, the McCarthy Scales of Children's Ability. Effective: 2016

EDU 215—Research on Achievement Motivation in Education (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Analysis and critique of recent research on cognitive processes related to achievement motivation in school settings. Topics include self-determination theory, attribution theory, goal theory, intrinsic and extrinsic motivation, learned helplessness. psychological reactance, gender and culture, and research design. Effective:

EDU 220—Concepts and Methods of Policy Analysis (4) Fieldwork; Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Introduction to concepts and methods of policy analysis. Emphasis on the relationship between educational issues and problems; policy development; constructing persuasive policy analyses; issues related to policy process. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 221—Culture and Social Organization of Schools (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Culture and social organization of schools. Examines perspectives of social researchers, educational policy-makers, and school members and their implications for educational research, policy and practice. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 222—School Change and Educational Reform (4) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Analysis of models, processes, and case studies of school change and educational reform with respect to variable characteristics of schools and schooling, planned and unplanned change, the moral evaluation of school change, and the role of educational research. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 223—Education and Social Policy (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Focuses on understanding the social and political context of education in the U.S. and California and how education policy is formed in the broader public arena. Develops skills in educational policy analysis. (Former course 237.) Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 225—Education Policy and Law (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Examination of law as an instrument of social policy. Specific focus on the legalization of education decision making, its causes, dimensions, and effects on administrative and teacher authority. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 226—Culture and Social Organization of Higher Education (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Critical study of culture and social organization of higher education institutions policies and functions in the U.S., with some attention to other countries. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 228—Politics and Governance of Education (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Examination of political power, representation, influence, decisionmaking and inter-governmental relations in the public schools. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 229—Education Finance Policy (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Examination of (1) United States financing public education, (2) the relationship between school finance and education policy, and (3) the relationship between education finance and education practice. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 230—Special Topics in Education Policy (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Selected topics in education policy. Designed to facilitate preparation for the qualifying examination or dissertation. Students will critically analyze scholarly work including their own works in progress. May be repeated for credit for credit when topic differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 235—Critical Pedagogy (4) Seminar—4 hours. A socio-cultural critique, from an interdisciplinary perspective, of educational reform and change. The critique will include an analysis of the influence of text content on the perpetuation of social power differences. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 236—Application of Hierarchical Linear Models in Education Research (4) Discussion/Laboratory—2 hours; Lecture—2 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): EDU 204A; Or similar course with permission of the instructor. Application of hierarchical linear models in education research across multiple areas, such as policy, curriculum, and assessment. Develop working knowledge of hierarchical linear modeling and an understanding of its use in existing research as well as student's work. Effective: 2009 Spring Quarter.

EDU 237—Survey Research Methods (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Theories, principles and application of survey research methodology. Students develop, validate, and administer survey instruments; select representative samples; conduct focus groups; and collect, organize, and analyze survey data. Familiarity with introductory concepts in descriptive and inferential statistics is assumed. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 238—Participatory Action Research (PAR) (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Introductory research methods course recommended. Principles and strategies of PAR and related methodologies that emphasize collaborating with those affected by the issue being researched in order to educate, take action or effect social change. Conduct interviews with potential collaborators, case analyses and research proposals. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 239—Interview Methods (4) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): EDU 201 or equivalent course recommended. Introduction to qualitative interviewing, focused in particular on narrative and selfstory as both practical method and theoretical stance. Students complete a case-focused interview project during the course: designing an interview protocol, conducting the interview, transcribing, analyzing, and presenting their research. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

EDU 242—Research on Text Comprehension (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Analysis of recent research related to cognitive processing of written texts. Topics include word decoding, schema theory, background knowledge, assimilation, accommodation, working memory, processing depth, vocabulary acquisition, sentence-level processes, text-level processes, text structure, implications for curriculum and instruction. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 243—Research on the Teaching and Learning of Writing (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Study of issues in research on composition; history of composition studies; data analysis techniques; product and process approaches; cognitive and social perspectives. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 244—Topical Seminar in Language, Literacy and Culture (4) Project (Term Project)—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Critical study of selected issues of language, literacy, and culture as they relate to education. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) topics differ. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 245—Theory and Research in Early Literacy (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Analysis of children's initial processes in learning to read extending from the preschool years into second grade. Topics include emergent literacy, phonological awareness, word recognition, decoding, spelling, vocabulary, comprehension, second language reading, assessment, intervention, and instruction. GE credit: SS. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 246—Reading as a Social and Cultural Process (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): EDU 211 recommended. Recent theoretical and empirical work on reading in social contexts. Topics include reading as an individual interactive process; reading as a social and cultural process; critical perspectives on reading; implications of contrastive theoretical perspectives for curriculum and instruction in reading. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 247—Research on Response to Culturally Diverse Literature, K-12 (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Research on response to culturally diverse literature in classrooms and other K-12 settings. Topics include reader response theories, values in expanding the literary canon, problems of cultural authenticity, resistance to multicultural literature, and instruction for diverse texts and learners. Effective: 2006 Fall Quarter.

EDU 248—Academic Language and Literacies (4) Fieldwork; Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours. Exploration of theories and research on academic language and literacies for the schooling of first and second language learners. Students use basic qualitative methods to collect and analyze classroom language and literacy data. Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

EDU 249—Discourse Analysis in Educational Settings (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): An introductory linguistics or sociolinguistics course or consent of instructor. Examines form and type in discourse (e.g., narration, conversation, routines), approaches to discourse analysis, and research on classroom discourse (lessons, teaching/learning interactional sequences). Final term paper is an analysis of discourse data taperecorded by student in a field setting. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 251—Research in Bilingual and Second Language Education (3) Seminar—3 hours. Discussion and analysis of recent research in bilingual and second language education. Topics include:language acquisition in second language learners and bilinguals, second language teaching methods, language-use models in bilingual education, interaction analysis in bilingual/cross-cultural classrooms,use of the vernacular in classrooms. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 253—Language and Literacy in Linguistic Minorities (3) Fieldwork—3 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Analysis and application of research on oral language development and literacy in language minority students, through the development, implementation, and evaluation of research-based language arts curriculum. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 255—Curriculum Development and Evaluation in Mathematics (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Analysis of curricular issues and goals in mathematics education, including long-term trends, current status and influences, proposed changes, and evaluation issues. Selected curriculum projects will be examined. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 256A—Research in Mathematics Education (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Examination of research process in mathematics education; review of critical productive problems identified by researchers; evolution of trends, issues, theories and hypotheses in various areas of mathematics education research. Course emphasizes foundations. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 256B—Research in Mathematics Education (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Current research issues and activities in mathematics education: status, trends, theories and hypotheses. Formulation of research questions and design of studies. Projection of future directions for research. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 257—Computer Technology in Mathematics Education (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Roles of calculators, computers, and graphing calculators in mathematics education will be addressed, with emphasis on the impact of these technologies on curriculum reform. Selected efforts to integrate technology into mathematics instruction will be examined. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 260—The Modern History of Science Education (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. History of curricular issues and goals in science education from the late 19th century forward, including long-term trends, current status and influences, proposed changes, and evaluation issues. National science standards and curriculum projects. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 262A—Research Topics in Science Education I (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Research process and product in science education; review of critical science education issues; evolution of trends, theories and hypotheses in various areas of science education research. Survey of current major research in science education. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 262B—Research Topics in Science Education II (4) Seminar—4 hours. Current research issues and activities in science education: status, trends, theories and hypotheses. Formulation of research questions, design of studies and critical, in-depth review of literature related to the student's research interests. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 264—Scientific Literacy and Science Education Reform (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Current trends in science education reform locally, regionally, and nationally focusing on scientific literacy. Equity, access and "science for all." Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 270—Research on Teacher Education and Development (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours. Research on teacher preparation in university credential programs and on professional development of in-service teachers, with special attention to teacher preparation for work with culturally and linguistically diverse youth. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 271—Supervision of Student Teachers: Research, Theory & Practice (4) Fieldwork—1 hour; Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Research, theory and practice in the preparation and supervision of teachers. Practice in the supervision of candidates in university teaching credential programs during the student teaching field placement and the mentoring of novice teachers by expert teachers. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 280A—Inquiry and Practice: Qualitative Research for Educational Leaders (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Prepares students to understand the nature/assumptions/logic of qualitative methodology as applied to educational settings, focusing on issues of design/conceptualization/ interpretation/application of qualitative research procedures. Students will use these methods in conducting studies in their educational settings. Effective: 2009

EDU 280B—Inquiry and Practice: Quantitative Research for Educational Leaders (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Field-based and general quantitative research methods in education will focus this course. Students acquire skills and knowledge to collect, organize, analyze, and interpret univariate and multivariate quantitative data in educational research, dissertation projects, and field-based projects. Effective: 2010 Winter Quarter.

EDU 281A—Problem-Based Learning Courses: Part 1 (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion; Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Students identify problems from their educational settings, engage in data collection/analysis, write-up the process/results, and present to class. Work may become a dissertation proposal, if the problem or its extension is of sufficient interest and value. Effective: 2009 Fall Quarter.

EDU 281B—Problem-Based Learning Courses: Part 2 (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion; Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Continuation of part one. Effective: 2010

EDU 281C—Problem-Based Learning Courses: Part 3 (4) Extensive Writing/Discussion; Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Continuation of part two. Effective: 2010

EDU 282A—Beginning Issues and Practices: Contemporary Educational Leadership (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Students explore the history and emergent relationships among leadership theories/practice and their application to current educational settings. Students will reflect on and refine their personal theory of leadership. Effective: 2009 Fall

EDU 282B—Beginning Issues and Practices: Diversity Issues for Educational Leaders (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. The diversity of stakeholders and community issues in California schools and colleges will be explored. Emphasis will be placed on the interaction between underrepresented segments of society and educational institutions. Best Practices in leading diverse schools will be explored. Effective: 2010 Winter Quarter.

EDU 283A—Advanced Issues and Practices: Leadership Across Communities (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Students examine the theory/practice/process of leadership in community-building and collaboration in/across communities, while addressing the utilization of human and material resources and the creation of partnerships, community linkages, and collaborative efforts. Effective: 2010 Spring Quarter.

EDU 283B—Advanced Issues and Practices: Leadership and Student Services (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Practical and theoretical perspectives for building a sense of vision to lead the profession of student affairs and to meet the needs of the whole student. Effective: 2010 Spring Quarter.

EDU 284A—Policy: History and Theory of Educational Policy (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Students learn/analyze the history/theory of educational policy. They see how education leaders have/can positively influence the process and implement effective policies in their local institutions. Policy issues covered: educational opportunity, equity, access, regulation, testing, tenure, accountability. Effective: 2009 Fall Quarter.

EDU 284B—Policy: Formulating and Influencing Policy (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Students will conduct critical analyses of policy at the federal, judicial, state, regional and local levels. Specific California and federal policy environment structures, processes and people will be examined for intended consequences, ethical dilemmas, social justice and equity issues. Effective: 2010 Winter Quarter.

EDU 284C—Policy: Possibilities and Limitations of Educational Policy in a Democracy (4) Fieldwork; Lecture/Discussion—4 hours; Project (Term Project). Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Students will critically examine the democratic purposes of education in light of existing National, State, and local policy reform efforts. Questions like, In what ways are these reforms and policies guided by democratic ideas and challenged by those ideals. Effective: 2010 Winter Quarter.

EDU 287—CANDEL Dissertation Seminars (6-12) Variable—18-36 hours. Prerequisite(s): Admission into the CANDEL EdD program or consent of instructor. Third year seminars encourage students to complete dissertations within the year. Cohort members meet together in every three-week meetings with faculty members and share their writing, data collection, analysis, discussion of results, development of conclusions/implications. May be repeated up to 9 time(s) until completion of dissertation. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2009 Fall Quarter.

EDU 287D—CANDEL Dissertation (6-12) Variable—18-36 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Passing of qualifying exams in CANDEL program and advancement to candidacy. Cohort members continue to meet with faculty and share their writing, data collection, analysis, development of conclusions/implications. May be repeated up to 9 time(s) until completion of dissertation. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 291—Proseminar in Education (4) Fieldwork—3 hours; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Admission to the M.A. or Ph.D. graduate program in Education. Professional induction into educational research field and Graduate Group in Education at UC Davis. Introduction to landscape of educational research methodologies, purposes and theories. Analysis of debates within field. Investigation of K-12 educational outreach efforts at UC Davis. May be repeated up to 2 time(s) May take the course one time as an MA student and one time as a PhD student. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 292—Special Topics in Education (2-4) Variable—2-4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Selected topics in education. Designed to facilitate preparation for the qualifying examination or dissertation. Students will critically analyze scholarly work including their own works in progress. May be repeated for credit. Effective:

EDU 294—Special Topics in Science, Agriculture and Mathematics Education (4) Project (Term Project); Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Critical study of special topics of research relevant to science, agricultural and mathematics education. Students and faculty present work-inprogress on a major research project, and critically analyze and discuss one another's developing scholarly work. May be repeated for credit topic differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 295—Special Topics in Learning and Mind Science (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Critical study of selected issues in the learning sciences, neurodevelopmental disorders, and psychometrics and measurement, as they relate to education. May be repeated for credit when topics differs. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 298—Group Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Group study. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2016

EDU 299—Individual Study (1-6) Variable—3-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Individual study under the direction of a faculty member. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 299D—Research (1-12) Independent Study—3-36 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Research for individual graduate students. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 300—Reading in the Elementary School (4) Fieldwork—3 hours; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Principles, procedures, and curriculum materials for teaching of reading. Includes decoding skills with a special emphasis on phonics, comprehension skills, study skills, and reading in the content areas. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 301—Reading in the Secondary School (4) Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing, enrollment in the secondary credential program or consent of instructor. Principles, procedures, and materials to help secondary school teachers improve the reading competence of students. Strategies for enhancing learning through reading and writing in all disciplines, with special attention to linguistically diverse populations. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

EDU 301A—Teaching Literacy in High School Contexts (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Restricted to students enrolled in the secondary credential program. Focuses on secondary school literacy practices and strategies for engaging English-speaking and bilingual students with textual, image, and digital literacies across content areas. Covers reading and writing, the Common Core and Language Proficiency standards. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 301B—Teaching Literacy in High School Contexts (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Restricted to students enrolled in the secondary credential program. Focuses on secondary school literacy practices and strategies for engaging English-speaking and bilingual students with textual, image, and digital literacies across content areas. Covers reading and writing, the Common Core and Language Proficiency standards. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 302—Language Arts in the Elementary School (2) Lecture—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Principles, procedures, and materials for the teaching of oral and written expression, listening skills, drama, and children's literature in elementary schools. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 303—Art Education in the Elementary School (2) Laboratory—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Understanding the principles of education in the arts through participation. Development of concepts, introduction to media, and techniques suitable for the elementary school with emphasis on cross-discipline exploration. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 304A—Teaching in the Elementary Schools (2-18) Fieldwork—9-48 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular classrooms in elementary schools. Selection and organization of teaching materials. Introduction to techniques of diagnosing school achievement of children. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 304B—Teaching in the Elementary Schools (2-18) Fieldwork—9-48 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular classrooms in elementary schools. Current conceptions of elementary school curriculum, emphasis on contributions from the social, biological, and physical sciences. Emphasis on effective teaching methods. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 304C—Teaching in the Elementary Schools (2-18) Fieldwork—9-48 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular classrooms in elementary schools. Evaluation of teaching materials including instructional technology. Current elementary school curriculum with emphasis on contributions from fine arts and humanities. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 305A—Teaching in the Middle Grades (5-8) Lecture—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours; Variable—15-30 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular or special education classrooms in middle grades. Current conceptions of the middle-grades curriculum with emphasis on social, biological, and physical sciences. Effective teaching methods. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 306A—Teaching in the Secondary Schools (2-18) Fieldwork—9-48 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular secondary classrooms. Techniques for classroom communications; constructing goals and objectives; assessment of learning; special problems of adolescents; instructional technology. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 306B—Teaching in the Secondary Schools (2-18) Fieldwork—9-48 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular secondary classrooms. Techniques for classroom communications; constructing goals and objectives; assessment of learning; special problems of adolescents; instructional technology. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 306C—Teaching in the Secondary Schools (2-18) Fieldwork—9-48 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Supervised teaching in regular secondary classrooms. Techniques for classroom communications; constructing goals and objectives; assessment of learning; special problems of adolescents; instructional technology. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 307—Methods in Elementary Science (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Principles, procedures, and materials for teaching the biological and physical sciences in elementary schools. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 308—Methods in Elementary Social Studies (2) Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Principles, procedures, and materials for teaching history and the social sciences in elementary schools. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 309—The Teaching of Mathematics, K-9 (3) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Mathematics curriculum and teaching methods for K-9 reflecting the needs of California's diverse student populations. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 310—Teaching as Reflective Practice (1) Lecture/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Presentation of issues related to classroom instruction and professional practice, reflections on classroom instruction and other documentation related to student teaching experience. May be repeated up to 6 time(s). Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 320—Creating Classroom Communities (1) Fieldwork—30 hours; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Observation of classrooms at beginning of academic year for first-hand experience with teachers’ approaches to creating communities and setting routines. Candidates are placed with students they will teach during student teaching. Candidates may take on teaching tasks as appropriate. Effective: 2016 Summer Special Session.

EDU 322A—Pedagogical Preparation for Secondary Social Science I (3) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture/Discussion—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Introduction to teaching methods and curriculum approaches for secondary social science teaching. State and national curriculum standards; application of learning theory to effective instruction; interdisciplinary teaching and active learning approaches; effective teaching strategies for English learners. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 322B—Pedagogical Preparation for Secondary Social Science II (3) Discussion—2 hours; Lecture/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Intermediate teaching methods and curriculum approaches for secondary social science teaching. Interdisciplinary approaches to teaching major themes across social science content areas; teaching potentially controversial social science topics; teaching democratic civic values, student assessment and evaluation. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 323A—Physical Science in the Secondary School (3) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Discussion/Laboratory—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Activity-based overview of concepts and processes in secondary school physical sciences. Emphasis upon philosophy, appropriate teaching methods, materials, assessment and evaluation of learning. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 323B—Life Sciences in the Secondary School (3) Discussion/Laboratory—2 hours; Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Activity-based overview of concepts and processes in secondary school biology and life sciences. Emphasis on philosophy, appropriate teaching methods, materials, assessment and evaluation of learning, and issues. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 324A—Methods and Technology in Secondary Mathematics I (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Introduction to methods and curriculum for teaching mathematics at the secondary level. Introduction to applications of computer technology as instructional, intellectual, and communication tools for mathematics teachers. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 324B—Methods in Secondary Mathematics II (3) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Expansion of methods and curriculum for teaching mathematics at the secondary level. Intermediate applications of computer technology as instructional, intellectual, and communication tools in mathematics teaching. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 325—Research and Methods in Secondary English Language Arts (4) Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Research on teaching and learning in the language arts. Principles, procedures and materials for improving the writing, reading and oral language of secondary students, with special attention to students from culturally and linguistically diverse populations. Effective: 2016 Fall

EDU 327A—Teaching Methods for Secondary Foreign Language/Spanish, Part I (3) Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Introduction to methods for teaching Spanish as a foreign and a heritage language in secondary schools. State and National Standards. Theories on second language acquisition. Lesson plans. Effective teaching strategies and class management. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 327B—Teaching Methods for Secondary Foreign Language/Spanish, Part II (3) Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance in Teacher Credential Program. Continuation to methods for teaching Spanish as a foreign and a heritage language in secondary schools. Research and practice on foreign and heritage language teaching. Expansion of effective teaching strategies and class management. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

EDU 398—Group Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

EDU 399—Individual Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter
