MCN 260—Nutrition During Pregnancy (6) Lecture—5 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Acceptance into the Master of Advanced Studies in Maternal and Child Nutrition; other students by consent of instructor. Open to Graduate standing. Overview of the anatomical, physiological and biochemical changes that occur during pregnancy and early development. Discussion and evaluation of nutritional/lifestyle factors associated with pregnancy outcomes and nutrition programs/interventions for pregnant women. Effective: 2016

MCN 261—Lactation and Infant Nutrition (6) Lecture—5 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): MCN 260; Graduate standing. Restricted to students enrolled in the MAS program; other graduate students by consent of instructor. Overview of the physiological and biochemical processes underlying human lactation and nutritional needs of both mother and infant. Development of skills in assessment, nutrition counseling, education and support of new mothers and their families. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

MCN 262—Child and Adolescent Nutrition (6) Lecture—5 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): MCN 261; Graduate Standing. Restricted to students enrolled in the MAS program; other graduate students by consent of instructor. Relationships among nutrition, growth, and development during childhood and adolescence. Nutritional assessment for normal and high risk groups; psychological, social, and economic factors contributing to nutritional status. Nutritional needs and interventions for special groups, including obese children/adolescents, athletes, and eating disordered. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

MCN 263—Applied Research Methods in Maternal and Child Nutrition (4) Lecture/Discussion—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing. Restricted to students enrolled in the MAS program; other graduate students by consent of instructor. Application of epidemiological principles to the study of maternal and child nutrition. Topics include quantitative and qualitative study procedures, including study design, data collection, and related analytical techniques. Effective: 2018 Winter Quarter.

MCN 264B—Current Topics in Maternal and Child Nutrition: Epidemiology and EvidenceBased Practice (2) Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing. Restricted to students enrolled in the MAS program; other graduate students by consent of instructor. Current scientific literature related to Maternal and Child Nutrition. Topics include epidemiology, evidence-based practice, breastfeeding promotion, and nutritional assessment of populations. Effective: 2017 Spring Quarter.
