PAS 299—Research and Writing (1-4) Extensive Writing/Discussion—3-12 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Open to Graduate Students in the Nursing Science and Health-Care Leadership Graduate Degree programs, or by consent of instructor. Students in the Nursing Science and Health-Care Leadership graduate programs conduct research and writing under the supervision of a faculty member. May be repeated for credit Students may repeat this course for credit in different quarters, depending on the length of their program of study to complete their Master's Degree. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

PAS 400—Basic Clinical Skills (1-4) Lecture/Lab—1-4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Open to Graduate Students in the Nursing Science and Health-Care Leadership Graduate Degree programs, or by consent of instructor. Instruction and practice of the fundamental clinical skills necessary for patient care comprise this course with a primary focus on principles of effective communication in establishing the therapeutic provider-patient relationship. Effective: 2013 Summer Quarter.

PAS 401—Basic Clinical Skills (1-4) Lecture/Discussion—1-4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Open to Graduate Students in the Nursing Science and Health-Care Leadership Graduate Degree programs, or by consent of instructor. Continuation of focus on history taking and physical examination skills with advanced/specialized content. Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

PAS 410A—Advanced Clinical Skills (1-4) Lecture/Lab—1-4 hours. Open to Graduate Students in the Nursing Science and Health-Care Leadership Graduate Degree programs, or by consent of instructor. Continuation of focus on history taking and physical examination skills with advanced/specialized content. Effective: 2014

PAS 410B—Advanced Clinical Skills (1-4) Lecture/Lab—1-4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Open to Graduate Students in the Nursing Science and Health-Care Leadership Graduate Degree programs, or by consent of instructor. Continuation of focus on history taking and physical examination skills with advanced/specialized content related specialty systems. Effective: 2014 Spring Quarter.

PAS 410C—Advanced Clinical Skills (1-4) Lecture/Lab—1-4 hours. Open to Graduate Students in the Nursing Science and Health-Care Leadership Graduate Degree programs, or by consent of instructor. Continuation of focus on history taking and physical examination skills with advanced/specialized content related to specified systems. Effective: 2014 Summer Quarter.

PAS 410D—Advanced Clinical Skills (1-4) Lecture/Lab—1-4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Open to Graduate Students in the Nursing Science and Health-Care Leadership Graduate Degree programs, or by consent of instructor. Continuation of focus on history taking and physical examination skills with advanced/specialized content related to specified systems. Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

PAS 410E—Advanced Clinical Skills (1-4) Lecture/Lab—1-4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Open to Graduate Students in the Nursing Science and Health-Care Leadership Graduate Degree programs, or by consent of instructor. Continuation of focus on history taking and physical examination skills with advanced/specialized content related to specified systems. Effective: 2013 Fall Quarter.

PAS 410F—Advanced Clinical Skills (1-4) Lecture/Lab—1-4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Open to Graduate Students in the Nursing Science and Health-Care Leadership Graduate Degree programs, or by consent of instructor. Continuation of focus on history taking and physical examination skills with advanced/specialized content related to specified systems. Effective: 2014 Spring Quarter.

PAS 410G—Advanced Clinical Skills (1-4) Lecture/Lab—1-4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Open to Graduate Students in the Nursing Science and Health-Care Leadership Graduate Degree programs. Continuation of focus on history taking and physical examination skills with advanced/specialized content related to specified systems. Effective: 2015 Fall Quarter.

PAS 440—Preparation for Clinical Practice (1-3) Clinical Activity—36 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Open to Graduate Students in the Nursing Science and Health-Care Leadership Graduate Degree programs, or by consent of instructor. Students are placed in clinical settings and/or clinical simulation laboratories to observe and practice the integration of clinical skills with direct supervision by faculty. Effective: 2014
