POL 001—American National Government (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Survey of American national government, including the constitutional system, political culture, parties, elections, the presidency, Congress, and the courts. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 002—Introduction to Comparative Politics (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Introduction to basic concepts in political analysis and application of them in comparative studies of selected countries. Coverage is given to cultural and other informal dimensions of politics as well as to more formal political and governmental structures. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 003—International Relations (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. International conflict and cooperation, including the Cold War, nuclear weapons, and new techniques for understanding international politics. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

POL 004—Basic Concepts in Political Theory (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Analysis of such concepts as the individual, community, liberty, equality, justice, and natural law as developed in the works of the major political philosophers. GE credit: AH, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 005—Contemporary Problems of the American Political System (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. In-depth treatment of selected problems and issues of American politics, governmental institutions, and policies. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective:

POL 007—Contemporary Issues in Law and Politics (4) Seminar—4 hours. Limited enrollment; open to students having no more than 40.1 units. Seminar focusing on the political dimensions of American law and institutions. Examines the role of courts in resolving contemporary issues of law and politics including abortion, capital punishment, and civil rights. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 011A—America Decides: Who Will Win This Year's Election? (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Survey of factors influencing presidential and congressional elections. Analysis of candidate nominations, campaign strategy, campaign finance, media coverage, and voter decision-making. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall

POL 011C—Politics and Film (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Survey of portrayals of politics and policy issues in moving pictures. Analysis of political processes, policy development, social mores, and historical periods as highlighted in Hollywood movies, television, and/or documentary films. GE credit: ACGH, SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

POL 011D—Political Persuasion (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Examination of political influence and persuasion. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

POL 012A—Politics and Sports (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Core issues in American and world politics through the lens of sports and the athletes who play them. The introduction of American civil rights movement, the Cold War, Middle East Tensions, and democratization. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective:

POL 012B—Climate Change and Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Analysis of political institutions' response and adaptation to climate change. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

POL 012Y—Data Visualization in the Social Sciences (4) Laboratory—1.5 hours; Lecture—2 hours; Web Virtual Lecture—1.5 hours. Introduction to quantitative data across the social sciences (Communications, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology, and other disciplines). Transforming data, describing data, producing graphs, visual reasoning, and interpretations. (Same course as Communications 12Y, Sociology 12Y, Psychology 12Y.) GE credit: QL, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 051—Scientific Study of Politics (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Introduction to the basic principles of the scientific study of politics. Research design and empirical analysis of data with applications to different methodological approaches and different substantive areas in political science. GE credit: AH, QL, SE, SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2006 Fall Quarter.

POL 090X—Lower Division Seminar (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Lower division standing. Limited enrollment. Examines fundamental issues and concepts that shape the study and practice of politics. Students will read, discuss and write about some of the most significant texts in political science in order to develop a foundation for the study of politics. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 099—Special Study for Undergraduates (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

POL 100—Local Government and Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Politics and government of local communities in the United States, including cities, counties and special districts. Emphasizes sources and varieties of community conflict, legislative and executive patterns, expertise, decision making and the politics of structure. Observation of local governing boards. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 102—Urban Public Policy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 001 recommended. Political and economic relationships among central cities, suburbs, and regional, state, and federal governments. Focuses upon policy areas such as poverty, transportation, welfare, and housing, and upon who governs and who benefits from the policies in these areas. GE credit: ACGH, DD, QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 104—California State Government and Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 001 recommended. California political system. Political culture, constitution, elections and parties, direct democracy, legislature, governor, executive branch, courts, finances, state-local relations and policy issues. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 105—The Legislative Process (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Legislative process with emphasis on the United States Congress; legislative organization and procedures, legislative leadership and policy making, legislators and constituents, relations between Congress and other agencies. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 106—The Presidency (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. American presidencies origins and development; presidential power and influence as manifest in relationships with Congress, courts, parties, and the public in the formulation and administration of foreign and domestic policy; nominations, campaigns, and elections. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 107—Environmental Politics and Administration (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Environment as a political issue in the United States. Development of administrative mechanisms for handling environmental problems. Changing role of Congress, the presidency, the bureaucracy and the courts in environmental policy formulation and implementation. GE credit: ACGH, QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 108—Policy Making in the Public Sector (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 001 recommended. Theoretical rationale for governmental activity, program evaluation, PPBS, positive theories of policy making, the quantitative study of policy determinants, implementation, and proposals for improved decision making. GE credit: ACGH, QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring

POL 109—Public Policy and the Governmental Process (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Processes of formulating public policy, including individual and collective decision making, political exchange, competition, bargaining, coalition formation and the allocation of public goods, resources and opportunities. GE credit: ACGH, QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 110—The Strategy of Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Introduction to game theory. Explanation of the behavior of individuals in strategic interaction. Rational and behavioral approaches. Applications to political science and other fields. GE credit: QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 112—Contemporary Democratic Theory (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Major contemporary attempts to reformulate traditional democratic theory, attempts to replace traditional theory by conceptual models derived from modern social science findings. GE credit: AH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 113—American Political Thought (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Origins and nature of American political thought. Principles of American thought as they emerge from the founding period to the present. GE credit: ACGH, AH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 114—Quantitative Analysis of Political Data (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 051 recommended. Logic and methods of analyzing quantitative political data. Topics covered include central tendency, probability, correlation, and non-parametric statistics. Particular emphasis will be placed on understanding the use of statistics in political science research. GE credit: AH, QL, SE, SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 115—Medieval Political Thought (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Examination of the ideas central to medieval political thinking. Emphasis will be upon the thoughts of the major political thinkers of the period, rather than upon political history. GE credit: AH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016

POL 116—Foundations of Political Thought (4) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Analysis and evaluation of the seminal works of a major political philosopher or of a major problem in political philosophy. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) when topic differs. GE credit: AH, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 117—Topics in the History of Political Thought (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Political thought of a specific historical period. Topics may include: Ancient Athens, the Italian Renaissance, the Enlightenment, or Nineteenth Century Germany. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) when topics differ. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 118A—History of Political Theory: Ancient (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Critical analyses of classical and medieval political philosophers such as Plato, Aristotle, Cicero and St. Thomas. GE credit: AH, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 118B—History of Political Theory: Early Modern (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Critical analysis of the works of early modern political philosophers such as Machiavelli, Montaigne, Hobbes, Locke and Hume. GE credit: AH, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 118C—History of Political Theory: Late Modern (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Critical analyses of the works of late modern political philosophers such as Rousseau, Kant, Hegel, Tocqueville, Mill, Marx and Nietzsche. GE credit: AH, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 119—Contemporary Political Thought (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Contemporary political thought from the end of the nineteenth century to the present. Emphasis upon an individual philosopher, concept, or philosophical movement; e.g., Nietzsche, Continental political thought, Rawls and critics, theories of distributive justice, feminist theory. GE credit: AH, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 120—Theories of International Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 003 recommended. Major contemporary approaches to the study of international politics, including balance of power, game theory, Marxist-Leninist theory, systems theory, and decision-making analysis. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 121—Scientific Study of War (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 003 recommended. Analysis of political processes involved in the initiation, conduct and termination of modern interstate warfare. GE credit: QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 122—International Law (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 003 recommended. Selected topics in international law; territory, sovereign immunity, responsibility, the peaceful settlement or nonsettlement of international disputes. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 123—The Politics of Interdependence (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 003 recommended. In the past several decades, growing economic interdependence has generated new problems in international relations. Course deals with difficulties in managing complex interdependence and its implication on national policies and politics. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective:

POL 124—The Politics of Global Inequality (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 003 recommended. Analysis of current economic and political international relations resulting from a long standing division of the global system into rich and poor regions. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016

POL 126—Ethnic Self-Determination and International Conflict (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 003 recommended. Compares the claims of the state and ethnic peoples in countries undergoing internal conflicts; e.g., South Africa, Northern Ireland. Analyzes the role of the international community in facilitating the peaceful resolution of conflicts. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 129—Special Studies in International Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): POL 003 recommended. Intensive examination of one or more special problems in international politics. May be repeated once for credit when different topic is studied. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016

POL 130—Recent U.S. Foreign Policy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 003 recommended. Broad survey of the development of U.S. foreign policy in twentieth century with emphasis on transformation of policy during and after World War II, and the introduction to analytic tools and concepts useful for understanding of current foreign policy issues. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 131—Analysis of U.S. Foreign Policy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 003 recommended. Detailed presentation and examination of the formulation of execution of U.S. foreign policy. Survey of numerous factors influencing policy outcomes and how such determinants vary according to policy issue areas. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 132—National Security Policy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 003 recommended. Development of national security policies since 1945. Analysis of deterrence and assumptions upon which it is based. Effects of nuclear weapons upon conduct of war, alliance systems, and the international system. Prospects of security and stability through arms control. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 134—Africa and U.S. Foreign Policy (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 003 recommended. Overview of American foreign policy toward Africa. Relationship to global adversaries. Legacies of colonialism. Challenge of national self-determination and white racism. Policies on non-alignment, producer cartels, multinational corporations, continental integration and trade and aid relations. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 135—International Politics of the Middle East (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 003 recommended. International politics of the Middle East as a microcosm of world politics. The Middle East as a regional system. Domestic and International Politics in the Middle East. Changing Political Structures in the Middle East. Superpower involvement in the Middle East. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 136—The Arab-Israeli Conflict (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 003 recommended. Causes, course, and implications of Arab-Israeli conflict. Competing Israeli and Arab narratives, politics of force, diplomacy. Domestic politics and A-I conflict, the superpowers and the A-I conflict, A-I conflict and world politics, potential solutions. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring

POL 137—International Relations in Western Europe (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 003 recommended. Analysis of European unity, problems of the Atlantic alliance, Atlantic political economy, East-West relations, communism in Western Europe and the relationship between domestic politics and foreign policy. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 139—Special Studies in Foreign Policy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 003 recommended. Extensive examination of one or more special problems in foreign policy. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) when topic differs. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 140A—Comparative Political Institutions: Electoral Systems (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Workings of electoral institutions, focusing on systems used to elect presidents and assemblies, pass laws, and generally make decisions. Examples from systems throughout the world, including cases from both the advanced industrial and developing worlds. GE credit: QL, SS, WE. Effective:

POL 140B—Comparative Political Institutions: Parties (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 002 recommended. Factors shaping political parties and their role in democratic representation. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 140C—Comparative Political Institutions: Legislatures (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 002 recommended. Examination of legislatures from a comparative perspective. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 140D—When Institutions Fail (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Examination of factors contributing to the success and failure of political institutions. GE credit: QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 140E—Policy-Making Processes (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Comparative analysis of policy-making in the U.S. and other countries. GE credit: QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 142B—Comparative Development: Politics and Inequality (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 002 recommended. Linkages between politics and the distribution of social and economic goods. Impact of civil rights legislation, the politics of welfare states, and the effects of political participation on the distribution of goods. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 142C—Comparative Political Development: Democracy and Democratization (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Examination of conditions promoting democratization and democratic stability. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 143A—Latin American Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Issues related to democratic consolidation in Latin America, with a regional focus on South America. Topics include transitions to democracy, the role of the military, political economy, and political behavior. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 143B—Mexican Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Introduction to the politics of contemporary Mexico. Focus on rise, fall, and aftermath of Mexico's one-party dominant system. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 144A—Politics of Post-Communist Countries: East European Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Postwar democratization, state-building and economic reform in East European states. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 144B—Politics of Post-Communist Countries: Russia (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Democratization, state-building and economic reform; creation of new institutions; impacts of Soviet rule. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 146A—Politics of Africa: Issues in Contemporary African Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. African politics since the end of the Cold War. Topics include: Strategic Security Approach, Democratization, Human Rights, HIV/AIDS, African Peacekeeping, Terrorism, Religious and Ethnic Conflict, Debt and Stalled Development. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 146B—Politics of Africa: Development in Africa (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Political and economic development within Sub-Saharan Africa. States and institutions, democracy, party systems, military coups/rule, bureaucracy/corruption, race/ethnicity, national/regional integrations, trade unions, economic development strategies, class formation, and women's roles and ideology. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 147A—West European Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 002 recommended. Evolution, politics, and contemporary problems of selected political systems of Western Europe. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 147B—West European Politics: British Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 002 recommended. Evolution, politics, and contemporary problems of Britain's political system. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 147C—West European Politics: French Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 002 recommended. Evolution, politics and contemporary problems of France's political system. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 147D—West European Politics: German Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Evolution, politics and contemporary problems of Germany's political system. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 148A—Government and Politics of East Asia: China (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Evolution of political institutions and political culture in China with emphasis on the post-1949 period. Primary attention to nationalism, modernization and political efficacy. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 148B—Government and Politics in East Asia: Japan (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Japanese politics, with an emphasis on the postwar period. Particular emphasis on political parties, elections, political economy, and social problems. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring

POL 148C—Government and Politics in East Asia: Southeast Asia (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Evolution of political institutions and economy of selected nations in Southeast Asia. Emphasis on imperialist legacy, nation building in multi-ethnic communities, and contrasts in economic performance. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 150—Judicial Politics and Constitutional Interpretation (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Politics of judicial policy making , issues surrounding constitutional interpretation and decision making, prerequisite for courses on the politics of constitutional law. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 152—The Constitutional Politics of the Equality (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Constitutional politics of equality in the American political system; issues surrounding constitutional doctrine and judicial policymaking; special attention on racial and sexual equality. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

POL 153—The Constitutional Politics of the Justice System (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Constitutional politics of the American criminal justice system. Issues surrounding constitutional doctrine and judicial policymaking on issues such as search and seizure. Arrest, trial, incarceration and other issues of due process. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 154—Legal Philosophy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Analysis of the nature and functions of law; law as an instrument of social control and the relationship between law and morality. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 155—Judicial Process and Behavior (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Analysis of the behavior of judges and courts in the political process. Techniques of judicial decision making. Relationships among courts and other decision-making bodies. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 160—American Political Parties (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Analysis of the structured operations of the party system in the United States; party functions and organizations, nomination processes, campaigns and elections, party trends and reforms. GE credit: ACGH, DD, QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

POL 162—Elections and Voting Behavior (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Analysis of American elections and partisan behavior; political socialization, political participation, partisanship and individual and group determinants of voting. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 163—Group Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Groups, institutions and individuals, especially in American politics. Historical and analytical treatment of group theories as applied to interest groups (especially labor, business, agriculture, science, military); to racial, ethnic and sectional groups; to parties, public and legislative groups, bureaucracies. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 164—Public Opinion (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 001 recommended. Nature of public opinion in America as it is supposed to be and as it is. Distribution of opinions among different publics and the significance of that distribution for system stability and institutions. Opinion polling and its problems. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring

POL 165—Mass Media and Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Organization of and decision making within the media; media audiences and the effect of the media on attitudes and behavior; the relationship of the government to the media (censorship, secrecy, freedom of the press, government regulation);the media in election campaigns. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 166—Women in Politics (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours; Seminar—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Role of women in American politics. Historical experiences; contemporary organizations and strategies; areas of legislative concern; the impact of differences in social class, race, and ethnicity upon the involvement of women in politics. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall

POL 168—Chicano Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Political aspects of Chicano life in America; examines the Chicano's political role as it has been historically defined by different groups in society and the Chicano's responses to his/her political environment. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 170—Political Psychology (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Overview to the growing literature on political psychology. Introduction to how psychological concepts (personality, attitudes, stereotypes, heuristics, affect, identity, group dynamics) help us understand how citizens think about politics. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 171—The Politics of Energy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Nature and performance of political processes for making energy choices at the international, national and state levels. Interaction of energy policy with other political goals and the ability of governmental institutions to overcome constraints on policy innovation. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring

POL 172—American Political Development (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Systematic analysis of contemporary issues in American political development: historical determinants of political change; the timing and character of institutional development; conditions for successful political action. Democratization, cultural change, party formation, state-building, constitutionalism, race relations. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 174—Government and the Economy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Political basis of economic policy (taxation, spending and regulation); impact of prices, employment and growth on political demands; elite responses to economic conditions; policy alternatives and the public interest. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 175—Science, Technology, and Policy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 001 recommended. Analysis of policymaking for science and the use of scientific expertise for making decisions about technology. Topics include funding of basic research, relationship of science to technological development, science and military policy, technological risks, technology assessment and scientists and politics. GE credit: QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 176—Racial Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Race, racial attitudes and racial policies in the United States with a specific emphasis on African Americans. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 179—Special Studies in Comparative Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 002 recommended. Intensive examination of one or more special problems appropriate to comparative politics. Coverage is given to formal and informal political institutions, economically developing and developed countries, and non-democratic, democratic, and democratizing countries. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 180—Bureaucracy in Modern Society (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 001 or POL 002 recommended. Role of bureaucracy in a complex society, with emphasis upon changing relationships between government and the economy; consequences of rapid technological and social change for bureaucratic structures and processes; the problems of reconciling expertise and democracy and increasing the responsiveness of public bureaucracy. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 183—Administrative Behavior (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Implications for American public administration of evolving concepts about behavior in organizations. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 187—Administrative Theory (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Historical and critical analysis of the principal theories of organization and management of public agencies in light of such concepts as decision making, bureaucracy, authority and power, communication and control; examination of role of government bureaucracies in the total society. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 190—International Relations (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 003 recommended. Analysis and evaluation of substantive issues in contemporary international relations. Readings drawn from current academic and non-academic periodicals. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

POL 192A—Internship in Public Affairs (5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Enrollment dependent on availability of intern positions with highest priority assigned to students with Political Science Public Service major; upper division standing. Supervised internship and study in political, governmental, or related organizations. (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 192B—Internship in Public Affairs (5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): POL 192A; Enrollment dependent on availability of intern positions with highest priority assigned to students with Political Science-Public Service major; upper division standing. Supervised internship and study in political, governmental, or related organizations. (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 193—Research in Practical Politics (2) Project (Term Project)—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): POL 192A; POL 192B; Open only to Political Science-Public Service majors, for whom it is required. Supervised preparation of an extensive paper relating internship experience to concepts, literature, and theory of political science. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 193W—Washington Center Research Seminar (4) Independent Study—3 hours; Lecture/Discussion—1 hour; Tutorial—0.5 hours. Prerequisite(s): POL 192W (can be concurrent); POL 192W required concurrently. Core academic component of Washington Program. Topics coordinated with internships. Research draws on resources uniquely available in Washington, DC. Supervised preparation of extensive paper. (Same course as UC Davis Washington Center 193.) GE credit: OL, SS, WE. Effective: 2002 Spring Quarter.

POL 194HA—Special Study for Honors Students (4) Independent Study—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Major in Politcal Science with upper division standing and a GPA of 3.500 in the major. Directed reading, research and writing culminating in preparation of a senior honors thesis under the direction of faculty advisor. GE credit: OL, SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2002 Fall Quarter.

POL 194HB—Special Study for Honors Students (4) Independent Study—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Major in Political Science with upper division standing and a GPA of 3.500 in the major. Directed reading, research and writing culminating in preparation of a senior honors thesis under the direction of faculty advisor. GE credit: OL, SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2002 Fall Quarter.

POL 195—Special Studies in American Politics (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Upper division standing. Intensive examination of one or more special problems appropriate to American politics. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) when topic differs. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 196A—Seminar in American Politics (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Upper division Political Science majors or consent of instructor. Intensive reading, discussion, research, writing in American politics. Topics may include Congress, the Presidency, the Supreme Court, federalism, voting behavior, interest groups, ethnic groups or other topics with a more specialized content than normal course offerings. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) when topic differs. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2002 Fall

POL 196B—Seminar in Comparative Politics (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Upper division Political Science majors or consent of instructor. Intensive reading, discussion, research, writing in comparative politics. Topics may include one country or geographical area, political institutions or behavior across countries, political development, or other topics that are more specialized than normal course offerings. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) topic differs. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2002 Fall

POL 196C—Seminar in International Relations (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Upper division Political Science majors or consent of instructor. Intensive reading, discussion, research, writing in international relations including study of international political institutions (UN, EU, or NATO) or interstate relations (war, trade, immigration) and other topics with more specialized content than normal course offerings. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) topic differs. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2002 Fall Quarter.

POL 196D—Seminar in Political Theory (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Upper division Political Science majors or consent of instructor. Intensive reading, discussion, research, writing in political theory. Topics may include study of a single political thinker, a group of related thinkers, development of political concepts, or other topics with more specialized content than normal course offerings. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) topic differs. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2002 Fall Quarter.

POL 196E—Seminar in Research Methods (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Upper division Political Science majors or consent of instructor. Intensive reading, discussion, research, and writing in selected topics in Research Methods such as research design, statistics, game theory, etc. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) topic differs. GE credit: QL, SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2002 Fall Quarter.

POL 198—Directed Group Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Fall Quarter.

POL 199—Special Study for Advanced Undergraduates (1-5) Variable. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 201—Urban Government and Politics (4) Seminar—4 hours. Survey and analysis of the literature in the field of local government and politics in the United States. Approaches to the study of political reform, local autonomy, community power, representation, expertise, service delivery, policymaking and political change. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 202—American State Government and Politics (4) Seminar—4 hours. Survey and analysis of the literature in the field of state government, politics, and policy. Approaches to the study of the American states as political systems, including their governing institutions and processes and their role in the Federal system. Effective: 1997 Winter

POL 203A—American Government: The Presidency (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate students only. Thorough overview of the current research on political executives, with particular emphasis on the American presidency. Two principal goals: the development of important and innovative student research programs; and adequate preparation for qualifying examinations. Effective: 2011 Spring Quarter.

POL 203B—American Government: Congress (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate students only. Thorough overview of the current research on Congress, with particular emphasis on political representation. Two principal goals: the development of important and innovative student research programs; and adequate preparation for qualifying examinations. Effective: 2011 Spring Quarter.

POL 203C—American Government: Courts (4) Seminar—4 hours. Survey and analysis of the literature in the field of American government with a focus on courts. Emphasis on the development and testing of theories of behavior and processes. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 207—Environmental Public Policy (4) Seminar—4 hours. Analysis of the interface between the world of academic reflection about ecological and environmental problems and the world of political action. Evaluation of alternative approaches to policy analysis and recommendation. Individual research, including field research, will parallel discussion of the literature. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 208—Policy Analysis (4) Seminar—4 hours. Social science techniques applied to public policy formation and evaluation. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 209—The American Political System (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate students only. Analysis of selected theoretical and empirical issues posed by contemporary research in American government and politics. Effective: 2011 Spring Quarter.

POL 210—Research Design in Political Science (4) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing. Introduction to philosophy of science and research design for political science. Topics include: logic of empirical research, overview of research design approaches for political science research. Effective: 2006

POL 211—Research Methods in Political Science (4) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing. Pass One open to graduate majors; Pass Two open to graduate students. Introductory seminar on the foundations of probability theory and mathematical statistics that are critical to empirical investigations in political science. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

POL 212—Quantitative Analysis in Political Science I (4) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): POL 211 Pass One open to graduate majors; Pass Two open to graduate students. Seminar provides students with an introduction to the linear regression model. Students who complete the course will have a working knowledge of basic regression techniques and problems. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

POL 213—Quantitative Analysis in Political Science II (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): POL 211; POL 212 Pass One open to graduate majors; pass 2 open to graduate students. More advanced topics in the use of statistical methods, with emphasis on political applications. Topics include: properties of least squares estimates, problems in multiple regression, and advanced topics (probit analysis, simultaneous models, timeseries analysis, etc.). Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

POL 214A—Research in Political Science (4) Discussion—2 hours; Lecture—1 hour; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): POL 213 Advanced level graduate students in the Department of Political Science only. Research seminar sequence required of all PhD students. Design, execution, and defense of an original piece of research in political science, culminating in a paper of publishable quality. Effective: 2004 Spring Quarter.

POL 214B—Research in Political Science (4) Discussion—2 hours; Lecture—1 hour; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): POL 212; POL 214A Advanced level graduate students in the Department of Political Science only. Research seminar sequence required of all PhD students. Design, execution, and defense of an original piece of research in political science, culminating in a paper of publishable quality. Effective: 2006 Winter Quarter.

POL 215—Introduction to Modeling Political Behavior (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): POL 211; POL 212 Pass One open to graduate majors; pass 2 open to graduate students. Introduction to formal and game theoretic analyses of politics. Students will learn basic game theory and modeling skills. We examine the benefits of modeling, and look at examples of formal analysis in a variety of political science sub-fields. Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

POL 216—Qualitative Research Methods (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Methodology for utilizing theoretically-oriented case studies and controlled comparison of a small number of cases to develop and test theories. Examination of how the case study method compliments experimental, statistical and deductive modes of research. Effective: 2000 Winter Quarter.

POL 217—Social Choice Theory and Spatial Modeling (4) Seminar—4 hours. Introduction to social choice theory and formal spatial modeling including Arrows Theorem, the paradox of voting, cycling and agenda control. Focus on mastering modeling techniques as well as interpretation of classic works. Effective: 1998 Winter Quarter.

POL 218—Topics in Political Theory (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Topics vary and may be the work of a single theorist, time period, or political concept, such as justice. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) when topic differs. Effective:

POL 219A—Political Theory Sequence (4) Review all entries Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Survey of the great works in ancient and medieval political theory including such writers as Plato, Aristotle, Cicero, St. Augustine, Aquinas, Alfarabi and Marsilius. Discussion of various interpretations of these authors. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 219A—Political Theory Sequence (4) Review all entries Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Survey of the great works in ancient and medieval political theory including such writers as Plato, Aristotle, Cicero, St. Augustine, Aquinas, Alfarabi and Marsilius. Discussions of various interpretations of these authors. May be repeated for credit if topic differs. Effective: 2018 Fall Quarter.

POL 219B—Political Theory Sequence (4) Review all entries Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Survey of the great works in early modern to contemporary political theory including such writers as Machiavelli, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Marx, Mill, Nietzsche, and Rawls. Discussion of various interpretations of these authors. Effective: 1997 Winter

POL 219B—Political Theory Sequence (4) Review all entries Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Survey of the great works in early modern to contemporary political theory including such writers as Machiavelli, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Marx, Mill, Nietzsche, and Rawls. Discussion of various interpretations of these authors. May be repeated for credit if topic differs. Effective: 2018 Fall Quarter.

POL 219C—Contemporary Political Theory (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Survey of important works in contemporary political theory including such writers as Nietzsche, Heidegger, Arendt, Rawls, Nozick, Sandel. May be repeated for credit topic differs. Effective: 2004 Fall Quarter.

POL 220—Seminar in Political Theory (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing. Open to graduate students only. Introduction to political theory and current debates over its study. Readings from and textual interpretations of political theory including the Federalist Papers and major works by thinkers such as Plato, Aristotle, Machiavelli, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, and Rawls. Other readings addressing issues of textual interpretation. Effective: 2003 Fall Quarter.

POL 223—International Relations (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 225—The International System (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Analysis of the international system by means of theory formulation and integration; critique of research designs; use of various techniques of data generation and analysis. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 226—Seminar in International Political Economy (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate students. Research in international political economy. Structure of the global economy, as well as specific dimensions of international economic relations, including trade, capital flows, global production structures, and migration. Effective: 2011

POL 230—American Foreign Policy (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 231—U.S. Political Culture and Foreign Relations (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Relates U.S. political culture to formulation of foreign policy. Analyzes American ideological preferences in historical perspective, contemporary public opinion, decision making and implementation. Concludes by examining linkages between foreign policy behavior and democratic process. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 241—Communist Political Systems (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): or Consent of Instructor. Or the equivalent. Systematic analysis of selected topics dealing with the political process of communist political systems. Effective: 1997

POL 242—Seminar in Comparative Politics (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing or consent of instructor. Systematic survey of theories and methods used in the study of comparative politics. Effective:

POL 243—Comparative Institutional Change (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate students. Comparison of institutional changes in countries of the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe during the period of transition to democracy. Special attention to institutions of mass representation - electoral and party systems and national legislatures. Effective: 2011 Spring Quarter.

POL 246—Policymaking in Third-World Societies (4) Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing or consent of instructor. Included in an analysis of policymaking process in Third-World countries are such topics as political resources, institutional resources, decision making, resource allocations, planning, and budgeting, implementation, and distribution of world resources. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 250—Policy Development and Impact in U.S. Courts (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing. Thorough overview of the literature regarding courts as policymaking institutions of government, with emphasis on the formation and implementation of judicial policy. Differences and similarities across the judicial, congressional, and executive branch policy processes. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 260—Political Parties (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Survey of selected topics in American and comparative parties. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 261—Political Behavior (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Survey of selected topics in political behavior and public opinion. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) when topic differs. Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

POL 274—Political Economy (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate students. Politics of economic policy as reflected in taxation, spending and regulation; impact of prices, employment, and growth on political demands; government responses to economic conditions; electoral politics and the political business cycle. Effective: 2011 Spring Quarter.

POL 279—Political Networks: Methods and Applications (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing. Structure of political networks, socio-matrices and affiliation networks; general networks characteristics: density, centralization, polarization, interdependence, dyadic and triadic characteristics: structural and role equivalence; subsets of networks: cliques, blocks and bloc modeling; characteristics of individuals in networks: centrality and prestige. Effective: 2007 Fall Quarter.

POL 280—Bayesian Methods: for Social and Behavioral Sciences (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): POL 212; Or equivalent to course. Pass One open to graduate majors only; Pass Two open to graduate students. Methodology seminar introducing Bayesian quantitative methods to issues and problems in political science and other social and behavioral sciences. Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

POL 281—Statistical Computing Issues in Political Science (4) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): POL 213; Or equivalent to course. Restricted to graduate standing. Methodology seminar introducing computing issues in empirical models for political science and other social and behavioral sciences. Effective: 2005 Fall

POL 282—Advanced Modeling of Political Behavior (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 215; Or equivalent to course. Restricted to graduate standing or with instructors permission. Applications of formal theory to political science. Review of relevant contributions in other social sciences. Consideration of advanced techniques in game theory. Rational and behavioral approaches. Effective: 2005 Fall

POL 283—Organizational Behavior (4) Seminar—4 hours. Organizational behavior as it relates to public sector decision making. Effective:

POL 284—Advanced Network Analysis (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): POL 211; POL 212; POL 279 Exponential Random Graph Models (ERGMS) of networks, game theoretic models of network formation and network dynamics, diffusion processes, shocks and network collapse, percolation, cross-network spillover processes, social and political applications of advanced network models. Effective: 2013 Fall

POL 290A—Research in American Government and Public Policy (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Restricted to graduate students. Special research seminar on problems and issues in the study of American government and public policy. May be repeated up to 6 time(s) if topic differs. Effective: 2011 Spring Quarter.

POL 290B—Research in Political Theory (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate students only. Special research seminar on problems and issues in the study of political theory. May be repeated up to 6 time(s) if topic varies. Effective: 2010 Spring Quarter.

POL 290C—Research in International Relations (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate students only. Special research seminar on select problems and issues in the study of international relations. May be repeated up to 6 time(s) if topic varies. Effective: 2010 Spring Quarter.

POL 290D—Research in Judicial Politics (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing in Political Science or consent of instructor. Contemporary research on judicial politics, judicial institutions, jurisprudence, and judicial behavior. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 290E—Research in Political Parties, Politics, and Political Behavior (4) Seminar—4 hours. Special research seminar on selected problems and issues in the study of political parties, politics, and political behavior. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 290F—Research in Comparative Government and Policy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate students only. Special research seminar on select problems and issues in the study of comparative government and policy. May be repeated up to 6 time(s) if topic varies. Effective: 2010 Spring Quarter.

POL 290G—Research in Methodology (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): POL 212 Special research seminar on selected problems and issues in methods in political science. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) topics vary. Effective: 2005 Fall Quarter.

POL 297—Internships in Political Science (2) Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Open only to persons who have internships or other positions in governmental agencies, political parties, etc. Application and evaluation of theoretical concepts through work experience or systematic observation in public and political agencies. May be repeated for credit. May be repeated for credit. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 298—Group Study (1-5) Variable. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 299—Research (1-12) Variable. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 299D—Research (1-12) Variable. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 390—The Teaching of Political Science (1) Seminar—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Graduate student standing in Political Science. Methods and problems of teaching political science at the undergraduate level. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 396—Teaching Assistant Training Practicum (1-4) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 001—American National Government (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Survey of American national government, including the constitutional system, political culture, parties, elections, the presidency, Congress, and the courts. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 002—Introduction to Comparative Politics (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Introduction to basic concepts in political analysis and application of them in comparative studies of selected countries. Coverage is given to cultural and other informal dimensions of politics as well as to more formal political and governmental structures. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 003—International Relations (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. International conflict and cooperation, including the Cold War, nuclear weapons, and new techniques for understanding international politics. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

POL 004—Basic Concepts in Political Theory (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Analysis of such concepts as the individual, community, liberty, equality, justice, and natural law as developed in the works of the major political philosophers. GE credit: AH, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 005—Contemporary Problems of the American Political System (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. In-depth treatment of selected problems and issues of American politics, governmental institutions, and policies. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective:

POL 007—Contemporary Issues in Law and Politics (4) Seminar—4 hours. Limited enrollment; open to students having no more than 40.1 units. Seminar focusing on the political dimensions of American law and institutions. Examines the role of courts in resolving contemporary issues of law and politics including abortion, capital punishment, and civil rights. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 011A—America Decides: Who Will Win This Year's Election? (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Survey of factors influencing presidential and congressional elections. Analysis of candidate nominations, campaign strategy, campaign finance, media coverage, and voter decision-making. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall

POL 011C—Politics and Film (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Survey of portrayals of politics and policy issues in moving pictures. Analysis of political processes, policy development, social mores, and historical periods as highlighted in Hollywood movies, television, and/or documentary films. GE credit: ACGH, SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

POL 011D—Political Persuasion (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Examination of political influence and persuasion. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

POL 012A—Politics and Sports (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Core issues in American and world politics through the lens of sports and the athletes who play them. The introduction of American civil rights movement, the Cold War, Middle East Tensions, and democratization. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective:

POL 012B—Climate Change and Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Analysis of political institutions' response and adaptation to climate change. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

POL 012Y—Data Visualization in the Social Sciences (4) Laboratory—1.5 hours; Lecture—2 hours; Web Virtual Lecture—1.5 hours. Introduction to quantitative data across the social sciences (Communications, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology, and other disciplines). Transforming data, describing data, producing graphs, visual reasoning, and interpretations. (Same course as Communications 12Y, Sociology 12Y, Psychology 12Y.) GE credit: QL, VL. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 051—Scientific Study of Politics (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Introduction to the basic principles of the scientific study of politics. Research design and empirical analysis of data with applications to different methodological approaches and different substantive areas in political science. GE credit: AH, QL, SE, SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2006 Fall Quarter.

POL 090X—Lower Division Seminar (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Lower division standing. Limited enrollment. Examines fundamental issues and concepts that shape the study and practice of politics. Students will read, discuss and write about some of the most significant texts in political science in order to develop a foundation for the study of politics. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 099—Special Study for Undergraduates (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter

POL 100—Local Government and Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Politics and government of local communities in the United States, including cities, counties and special districts. Emphasizes sources and varieties of community conflict, legislative and executive patterns, expertise, decision making and the politics of structure. Observation of local governing boards. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 102—Urban Public Policy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 001 recommended. Political and economic relationships among central cities, suburbs, and regional, state, and federal governments. Focuses upon policy areas such as poverty, transportation, welfare, and housing, and upon who governs and who benefits from the policies in these areas. GE credit: ACGH, DD, QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 104—California State Government and Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 001 recommended. California political system. Political culture, constitution, elections and parties, direct democracy, legislature, governor, executive branch, courts, finances, state-local relations and policy issues. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 105—The Legislative Process (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Legislative process with emphasis on the United States Congress; legislative organization and procedures, legislative leadership and policy making, legislators and constituents, relations between Congress and other agencies. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 106—The Presidency (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. American presidencies origins and development; presidential power and influence as manifest in relationships with Congress, courts, parties, and the public in the formulation and administration of foreign and domestic policy; nominations, campaigns, and elections. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 107—Environmental Politics and Administration (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Environment as a political issue in the United States. Development of administrative mechanisms for handling environmental problems. Changing role of Congress, the presidency, the bureaucracy and the courts in environmental policy formulation and implementation. GE credit: ACGH, QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 108—Policy Making in the Public Sector (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 001 recommended. Theoretical rationale for governmental activity, program evaluation, PPBS, positive theories of policy making, the quantitative study of policy determinants, implementation, and proposals for improved decision making. GE credit: ACGH, QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring

POL 109—Public Policy and the Governmental Process (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Processes of formulating public policy, including individual and collective decision making, political exchange, competition, bargaining, coalition formation and the allocation of public goods, resources and opportunities. GE credit: ACGH, QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 110—The Strategy of Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Introduction to game theory. Explanation of the behavior of individuals in strategic interaction. Rational and behavioral approaches. Applications to political science and other fields. GE credit: QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 112—Contemporary Democratic Theory (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Major contemporary attempts to reformulate traditional democratic theory, attempts to replace traditional theory by conceptual models derived from modern social science findings. GE credit: AH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 113—American Political Thought (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Origins and nature of American political thought. Principles of American thought as they emerge from the founding period to the present. GE credit: ACGH, AH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 114—Quantitative Analysis of Political Data (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 051 recommended. Logic and methods of analyzing quantitative political data. Topics covered include central tendency, probability, correlation, and non-parametric statistics. Particular emphasis will be placed on understanding the use of statistics in political science research. GE credit: AH, QL, SE, SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 115—Medieval Political Thought (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Examination of the ideas central to medieval political thinking. Emphasis will be upon the thoughts of the major political thinkers of the period, rather than upon political history. GE credit: AH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016

POL 116—Foundations of Political Thought (4) Lecture/Discussion—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Analysis and evaluation of the seminal works of a major political philosopher or of a major problem in political philosophy. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) when topic differs. GE credit: AH, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 117—Topics in the History of Political Thought (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Political thought of a specific historical period. Topics may include: Ancient Athens, the Italian Renaissance, the Enlightenment, or Nineteenth Century Germany. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) when topics differ. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 118A—History of Political Theory: Ancient (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Critical analyses of classical and medieval political philosophers such as Plato, Aristotle, Cicero and St. Thomas. GE credit: AH, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 118B—History of Political Theory: Early Modern (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Critical analysis of the works of early modern political philosophers such as Machiavelli, Montaigne, Hobbes, Locke and Hume. GE credit: AH, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 118C—History of Political Theory: Late Modern (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Critical analyses of the works of late modern political philosophers such as Rousseau, Kant, Hegel, Tocqueville, Mill, Marx and Nietzsche. GE credit: AH, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 119—Contemporary Political Thought (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Contemporary political thought from the end of the nineteenth century to the present. Emphasis upon an individual philosopher, concept, or philosophical movement; e.g., Nietzsche, Continental political thought, Rawls and critics, theories of distributive justice, feminist theory. GE credit: AH, SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 120—Theories of International Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 003 recommended. Major contemporary approaches to the study of international politics, including balance of power, game theory, Marxist-Leninist theory, systems theory, and decision-making analysis. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 121—Scientific Study of War (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 003 recommended. Analysis of political processes involved in the initiation, conduct and termination of modern interstate warfare. GE credit: QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 122—International Law (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 003 recommended. Selected topics in international law; territory, sovereign immunity, responsibility, the peaceful settlement or nonsettlement of international disputes. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 123—The Politics of Interdependence (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 003 recommended. In the past several decades, growing economic interdependence has generated new problems in international relations. Course deals with difficulties in managing complex interdependence and its implication on national policies and politics. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective:

POL 124—The Politics of Global Inequality (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 003 recommended. Analysis of current economic and political international relations resulting from a long standing division of the global system into rich and poor regions. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016

POL 126—Ethnic Self-Determination and International Conflict (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 003 recommended. Compares the claims of the state and ethnic peoples in countries undergoing internal conflicts; e.g., South Africa, Northern Ireland. Analyzes the role of the international community in facilitating the peaceful resolution of conflicts. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 129—Special Studies in International Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): POL 003 recommended. Intensive examination of one or more special problems in international politics. May be repeated once for credit when different topic is studied. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016

POL 130—Recent U.S. Foreign Policy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 003 recommended. Broad survey of the development of U.S. foreign policy in twentieth century with emphasis on transformation of policy during and after World War II, and the introduction to analytic tools and concepts useful for understanding of current foreign policy issues. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 131—Analysis of U.S. Foreign Policy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 003 recommended. Detailed presentation and examination of the formulation of execution of U.S. foreign policy. Survey of numerous factors influencing policy outcomes and how such determinants vary according to policy issue areas. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 132—National Security Policy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 003 recommended. Development of national security policies since 1945. Analysis of deterrence and assumptions upon which it is based. Effects of nuclear weapons upon conduct of war, alliance systems, and the international system. Prospects of security and stability through arms control. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 134—Africa and U.S. Foreign Policy (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 003 recommended. Overview of American foreign policy toward Africa. Relationship to global adversaries. Legacies of colonialism. Challenge of national self-determination and white racism. Policies on non-alignment, producer cartels, multinational corporations, continental integration and trade and aid relations. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 135—International Politics of the Middle East (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 003 recommended. International politics of the Middle East as a microcosm of world politics. The Middle East as a regional system. Domestic and International Politics in the Middle East. Changing Political Structures in the Middle East. Superpower involvement in the Middle East. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 136—The Arab-Israeli Conflict (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 003 recommended. Causes, course, and implications of Arab-Israeli conflict. Competing Israeli and Arab narratives, politics of force, diplomacy. Domestic politics and A-I conflict, the superpowers and the A-I conflict, A-I conflict and world politics, potential solutions. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring

POL 137—International Relations in Western Europe (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 003 recommended. Analysis of European unity, problems of the Atlantic alliance, Atlantic political economy, East-West relations, communism in Western Europe and the relationship between domestic politics and foreign policy. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 139—Special Studies in Foreign Policy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 003 recommended. Extensive examination of one or more special problems in foreign policy. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) when topic differs. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 140A—Comparative Political Institutions: Electoral Systems (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Workings of electoral institutions, focusing on systems used to elect presidents and assemblies, pass laws, and generally make decisions. Examples from systems throughout the world, including cases from both the advanced industrial and developing worlds. GE credit: QL, SS, WE. Effective:

POL 140B—Comparative Political Institutions: Parties (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 002 recommended. Factors shaping political parties and their role in democratic representation. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 140C—Comparative Political Institutions: Legislatures (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 002 recommended. Examination of legislatures from a comparative perspective. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 140D—When Institutions Fail (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Examination of factors contributing to the success and failure of political institutions. GE credit: QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 140E—Policy-Making Processes (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Comparative analysis of policy-making in the U.S. and other countries. GE credit: QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 142B—Comparative Development: Politics and Inequality (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 002 recommended. Linkages between politics and the distribution of social and economic goods. Impact of civil rights legislation, the politics of welfare states, and the effects of political participation on the distribution of goods. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 142C—Comparative Political Development: Democracy and Democratization (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Examination of conditions promoting democratization and democratic stability. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 143A—Latin American Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Issues related to democratic consolidation in Latin America, with a regional focus on South America. Topics include transitions to democracy, the role of the military, political economy, and political behavior. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 143B—Mexican Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Introduction to the politics of contemporary Mexico. Focus on rise, fall, and aftermath of Mexico's one-party dominant system. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 144A—Politics of Post-Communist Countries: East European Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Postwar democratization, state-building and economic reform in East European states. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 144B—Politics of Post-Communist Countries: Russia (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Democratization, state-building and economic reform; creation of new institutions; impacts of Soviet rule. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 146A—Politics of Africa: Issues in Contemporary African Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. African politics since the end of the Cold War. Topics include: Strategic Security Approach, Democratization, Human Rights, HIV/AIDS, African Peacekeeping, Terrorism, Religious and Ethnic Conflict, Debt and Stalled Development. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 146B—Politics of Africa: Development in Africa (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Political and economic development within Sub-Saharan Africa. States and institutions, democracy, party systems, military coups/rule, bureaucracy/corruption, race/ethnicity, national/regional integrations, trade unions, economic development strategies, class formation, and women's roles and ideology. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 147A—West European Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 002 recommended. Evolution, politics, and contemporary problems of selected political systems of Western Europe. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 147B—West European Politics: British Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 002 recommended. Evolution, politics, and contemporary problems of Britain's political system. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 147C—West European Politics: French Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 002 recommended. Evolution, politics and contemporary problems of France's political system. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 147D—West European Politics: German Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Evolution, politics and contemporary problems of Germany's political system. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 148A—Government and Politics of East Asia: China (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Evolution of political institutions and political culture in China with emphasis on the post-1949 period. Primary attention to nationalism, modernization and political efficacy. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 148B—Government and Politics in East Asia: Japan (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Japanese politics, with an emphasis on the postwar period. Particular emphasis on political parties, elections, political economy, and social problems. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring

POL 148C—Government and Politics in East Asia: Southeast Asia (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 002 recommended. Evolution of political institutions and economy of selected nations in Southeast Asia. Emphasis on imperialist legacy, nation building in multi-ethnic communities, and contrasts in economic performance. GE credit: SS, WC, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 150—Judicial Politics and Constitutional Interpretation (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Politics of judicial policy making , issues surrounding constitutional interpretation and decision making, prerequisite for courses on the politics of constitutional law. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 152—The Constitutional Politics of the Equality (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Constitutional politics of equality in the American political system; issues surrounding constitutional doctrine and judicial policymaking; special attention on racial and sexual equality. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

POL 153—The Constitutional Politics of the Justice System (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Constitutional politics of the American criminal justice system. Issues surrounding constitutional doctrine and judicial policymaking on issues such as search and seizure. Arrest, trial, incarceration and other issues of due process. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 154—Legal Philosophy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Analysis of the nature and functions of law; law as an instrument of social control and the relationship between law and morality. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 155—Judicial Process and Behavior (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Analysis of the behavior of judges and courts in the political process. Techniques of judicial decision making. Relationships among courts and other decision-making bodies. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 160—American Political Parties (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Analysis of the structured operations of the party system in the United States; party functions and organizations, nomination processes, campaigns and elections, party trends and reforms. GE credit: ACGH, DD, QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

POL 162—Elections and Voting Behavior (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Analysis of American elections and partisan behavior; political socialization, political participation, partisanship and individual and group determinants of voting. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 163—Group Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Groups, institutions and individuals, especially in American politics. Historical and analytical treatment of group theories as applied to interest groups (especially labor, business, agriculture, science, military); to racial, ethnic and sectional groups; to parties, public and legislative groups, bureaucracies. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 164—Public Opinion (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 001 recommended. Nature of public opinion in America as it is supposed to be and as it is. Distribution of opinions among different publics and the significance of that distribution for system stability and institutions. Opinion polling and its problems. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring

POL 165—Mass Media and Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Organization of and decision making within the media; media audiences and the effect of the media on attitudes and behavior; the relationship of the government to the media (censorship, secrecy, freedom of the press, government regulation);the media in election campaigns. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 166—Women in Politics (4) Discussion—1 hour; Lecture—3 hours; Seminar—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Role of women in American politics. Historical experiences; contemporary organizations and strategies; areas of legislative concern; the impact of differences in social class, race, and ethnicity upon the involvement of women in politics. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall

POL 168—Chicano Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Political aspects of Chicano life in America; examines the Chicano's political role as it has been historically defined by different groups in society and the Chicano's responses to his/her political environment. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 170—Political Psychology (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Overview to the growing literature on political psychology. Introduction to how psychological concepts (personality, attitudes, stereotypes, heuristics, affect, identity, group dynamics) help us understand how citizens think about politics. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 171—The Politics of Energy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Nature and performance of political processes for making energy choices at the international, national and state levels. Interaction of energy policy with other political goals and the ability of governmental institutions to overcome constraints on policy innovation. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring

POL 172—American Political Development (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Systematic analysis of contemporary issues in American political development: historical determinants of political change; the timing and character of institutional development; conditions for successful political action. Democratization, cultural change, party formation, state-building, constitutionalism, race relations. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 174—Government and the Economy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Political basis of economic policy (taxation, spending and regulation); impact of prices, employment and growth on political demands; elite responses to economic conditions; policy alternatives and the public interest. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 175—Science, Technology, and Policy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 001 recommended. Analysis of policymaking for science and the use of scientific expertise for making decisions about technology. Topics include funding of basic research, relationship of science to technological development, science and military policy, technological risks, technology assessment and scientists and politics. GE credit: QL, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 176—Racial Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Race, racial attitudes and racial policies in the United States with a specific emphasis on African Americans. GE credit: ACGH, DD, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 179—Special Studies in Comparative Politics (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 002 recommended. Intensive examination of one or more special problems appropriate to comparative politics. Coverage is given to formal and informal political institutions, economically developing and developed countries, and non-democratic, democratic, and democratizing countries. May be repeated up to 1 time(s). GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 180—Bureaucracy in Modern Society (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 001 or POL 002 recommended. Role of bureaucracy in a complex society, with emphasis upon changing relationships between government and the economy; consequences of rapid technological and social change for bureaucratic structures and processes; the problems of reconciling expertise and democracy and increasing the responsiveness of public bureaucracy. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 183—Administrative Behavior (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 001 recommended. Implications for American public administration of evolving concepts about behavior in organizations. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 187—Administrative Theory (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 004 recommended. Historical and critical analysis of the principal theories of organization and management of public agencies in light of such concepts as decision making, bureaucracy, authority and power, communication and control; examination of role of government bureaucracies in the total society. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Spring Quarter.

POL 190—International Relations (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper/Discussion—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. POL 003 recommended. Analysis and evaluation of substantive issues in contemporary international relations. Readings drawn from current academic and non-academic periodicals. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2016 Fall Quarter.

POL 192A—Internship in Public Affairs (5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Enrollment dependent on availability of intern positions with highest priority assigned to students with Political Science Public Service major; upper division standing. Supervised internship and study in political, governmental, or related organizations. (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 192B—Internship in Public Affairs (5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): POL 192A; Enrollment dependent on availability of intern positions with highest priority assigned to students with Political Science-Public Service major; upper division standing. Supervised internship and study in political, governmental, or related organizations. (P/NP grading only.) GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 193—Research in Practical Politics (2) Project (Term Project)—6 hours. Prerequisite(s): POL 192A; POL 192B; Open only to Political Science-Public Service majors, for whom it is required. Supervised preparation of an extensive paper relating internship experience to concepts, literature, and theory of political science. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 193W—Washington Center Research Seminar (4) Independent Study—3 hours; Lecture/Discussion—1 hour; Tutorial—0.5 hours. Prerequisite(s): POL 192W (can be concurrent); POL 192W required concurrently. Core academic component of Washington Program. Topics coordinated with internships. Research draws on resources uniquely available in Washington, DC. Supervised preparation of extensive paper. (Same course as UC Davis Washington Center 193.) GE credit: OL, SS, WE. Effective: 2002 Spring Quarter.

POL 194HA—Special Study for Honors Students (4) Independent Study—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Major in Politcal Science with upper division standing and a GPA of 3.500 in the major. Directed reading, research and writing culminating in preparation of a senior honors thesis under the direction of faculty advisor. GE credit: OL, SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2002 Fall Quarter.

POL 194HB—Special Study for Honors Students (4) Independent Study—2 hours; Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Major in Political Science with upper division standing and a GPA of 3.500 in the major. Directed reading, research and writing culminating in preparation of a senior honors thesis under the direction of faculty advisor. GE credit: OL, SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2002 Fall Quarter.

POL 195—Special Studies in American Politics (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Upper division standing. Intensive examination of one or more special problems appropriate to American politics. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) when topic differs. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 196A—Seminar in American Politics (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Upper division Political Science majors or consent of instructor. Intensive reading, discussion, research, writing in American politics. Topics may include Congress, the Presidency, the Supreme Court, federalism, voting behavior, interest groups, ethnic groups or other topics with a more specialized content than normal course offerings. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) when topic differs. GE credit: ACGH, SS, WE. Effective: 2002 Fall

POL 196B—Seminar in Comparative Politics (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Upper division Political Science majors or consent of instructor. Intensive reading, discussion, research, writing in comparative politics. Topics may include one country or geographical area, political institutions or behavior across countries, political development, or other topics that are more specialized than normal course offerings. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) topic differs. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2002 Fall

POL 196C—Seminar in International Relations (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Upper division Political Science majors or consent of instructor. Intensive reading, discussion, research, writing in international relations including study of international political institutions (UN, EU, or NATO) or interstate relations (war, trade, immigration) and other topics with more specialized content than normal course offerings. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) topic differs. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2002 Fall Quarter.

POL 196D—Seminar in Political Theory (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Upper division Political Science majors or consent of instructor. Intensive reading, discussion, research, writing in political theory. Topics may include study of a single political thinker, a group of related thinkers, development of political concepts, or other topics with more specialized content than normal course offerings. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) topic differs. GE credit: SS, WE. Effective: 2002 Fall Quarter.

POL 196E—Seminar in Research Methods (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Upper division Political Science majors or consent of instructor. Intensive reading, discussion, research, and writing in selected topics in Research Methods such as research design, statistics, game theory, etc. May be repeated up to 1 time(s) topic differs. GE credit: QL, SS, VL, WE. Effective: 2002 Fall Quarter.

POL 198—Directed Group Study (1-5) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Fall Quarter.

POL 199—Special Study for Advanced Undergraduates (1-5) Variable. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 201—Urban Government and Politics (4) Seminar—4 hours. Survey and analysis of the literature in the field of local government and politics in the United States. Approaches to the study of political reform, local autonomy, community power, representation, expertise, service delivery, policymaking and political change. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 202—American State Government and Politics (4) Seminar—4 hours. Survey and analysis of the literature in the field of state government, politics, and policy. Approaches to the study of the American states as political systems, including their governing institutions and processes and their role in the Federal system. Effective: 1997 Winter

POL 203A—American Government: The Presidency (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate students only. Thorough overview of the current research on political executives, with particular emphasis on the American presidency. Two principal goals: the development of important and innovative student research programs; and adequate preparation for qualifying examinations. Effective: 2011 Spring Quarter.

POL 203B—American Government: Congress (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate students only. Thorough overview of the current research on Congress, with particular emphasis on political representation. Two principal goals: the development of important and innovative student research programs; and adequate preparation for qualifying examinations. Effective: 2011 Spring Quarter.

POL 203C—American Government: Courts (4) Seminar—4 hours. Survey and analysis of the literature in the field of American government with a focus on courts. Emphasis on the development and testing of theories of behavior and processes. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 207—Environmental Public Policy (4) Seminar—4 hours. Analysis of the interface between the world of academic reflection about ecological and environmental problems and the world of political action. Evaluation of alternative approaches to policy analysis and recommendation. Individual research, including field research, will parallel discussion of the literature. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 208—Policy Analysis (4) Seminar—4 hours. Social science techniques applied to public policy formation and evaluation. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 209—The American Political System (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate students only. Analysis of selected theoretical and empirical issues posed by contemporary research in American government and politics. Effective: 2011 Spring Quarter.

POL 210—Research Design in Political Science (4) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing. Introduction to philosophy of science and research design for political science. Topics include: logic of empirical research, overview of research design approaches for political science research. Effective: 2006

POL 211—Research Methods in Political Science (4) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing. Pass One open to graduate majors; Pass Two open to graduate students. Introductory seminar on the foundations of probability theory and mathematical statistics that are critical to empirical investigations in political science. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

POL 212—Quantitative Analysis in Political Science I (4) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): POL 211 Pass One open to graduate majors; Pass Two open to graduate students. Seminar provides students with an introduction to the linear regression model. Students who complete the course will have a working knowledge of basic regression techniques and problems. Effective: 2015 Winter Quarter.

POL 213—Quantitative Analysis in Political Science II (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): POL 211; POL 212 Pass One open to graduate majors; pass 2 open to graduate students. More advanced topics in the use of statistical methods, with emphasis on political applications. Topics include: properties of least squares estimates, problems in multiple regression, and advanced topics (probit analysis, simultaneous models, timeseries analysis, etc.). Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

POL 214A—Research in Political Science (4) Discussion—2 hours; Lecture—1 hour; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): POL 213 Advanced level graduate students in the Department of Political Science only. Research seminar sequence required of all PhD students. Design, execution, and defense of an original piece of research in political science, culminating in a paper of publishable quality. Effective: 2004 Spring Quarter.

POL 214B—Research in Political Science (4) Discussion—2 hours; Lecture—1 hour; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): POL 212; POL 214A Advanced level graduate students in the Department of Political Science only. Research seminar sequence required of all PhD students. Design, execution, and defense of an original piece of research in political science, culminating in a paper of publishable quality. Effective: 2006 Winter Quarter.

POL 215—Introduction to Modeling Political Behavior (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): POL 211; POL 212 Pass One open to graduate majors; pass 2 open to graduate students. Introduction to formal and game theoretic analyses of politics. Students will learn basic game theory and modeling skills. We examine the benefits of modeling, and look at examples of formal analysis in a variety of political science sub-fields. Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

POL 216—Qualitative Research Methods (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Methodology for utilizing theoretically-oriented case studies and controlled comparison of a small number of cases to develop and test theories. Examination of how the case study method compliments experimental, statistical and deductive modes of research. Effective: 2000 Winter Quarter.

POL 217—Social Choice Theory and Spatial Modeling (4) Seminar—4 hours. Introduction to social choice theory and formal spatial modeling including Arrows Theorem, the paradox of voting, cycling and agenda control. Focus on mastering modeling techniques as well as interpretation of classic works. Effective: 1998 Winter Quarter.

POL 218—Topics in Political Theory (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Topics vary and may be the work of a single theorist, time period, or political concept, such as justice. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) when topic differs. Effective:

POL 219A—Political Theory Sequence (4) Review all entries Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Survey of the great works in ancient and medieval political theory including such writers as Plato, Aristotle, Cicero, St. Augustine, Aquinas, Alfarabi and Marsilius. Discussion of various interpretations of these authors. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 219A—Political Theory Sequence (4) Review all entries Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Survey of the great works in ancient and medieval political theory including such writers as Plato, Aristotle, Cicero, St. Augustine, Aquinas, Alfarabi and Marsilius. Discussions of various interpretations of these authors. May be repeated for credit if topic differs. Effective: 2018 Fall Quarter.

POL 219B—Political Theory Sequence (4) Review all entries Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Survey of the great works in early modern to contemporary political theory including such writers as Machiavelli, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Marx, Mill, Nietzsche, and Rawls. Discussion of various interpretations of these authors. Effective: 1997 Winter

POL 219B—Political Theory Sequence (4) Review all entries Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Survey of the great works in early modern to contemporary political theory including such writers as Machiavelli, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Marx, Mill, Nietzsche, and Rawls. Discussion of various interpretations of these authors. May be repeated for credit if topic differs. Effective: 2018 Fall Quarter.

POL 219C—Contemporary Political Theory (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Survey of important works in contemporary political theory including such writers as Nietzsche, Heidegger, Arendt, Rawls, Nozick, Sandel. May be repeated for credit topic differs. Effective: 2004 Fall Quarter.

POL 220—Seminar in Political Theory (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing. Open to graduate students only. Introduction to political theory and current debates over its study. Readings from and textual interpretations of political theory including the Federalist Papers and major works by thinkers such as Plato, Aristotle, Machiavelli, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, and Rawls. Other readings addressing issues of textual interpretation. Effective: 2003 Fall Quarter.

POL 223—International Relations (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 225—The International System (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Analysis of the international system by means of theory formulation and integration; critique of research designs; use of various techniques of data generation and analysis. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 226—Seminar in International Political Economy (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate students. Research in international political economy. Structure of the global economy, as well as specific dimensions of international economic relations, including trade, capital flows, global production structures, and migration. Effective: 2011

POL 230—American Foreign Policy (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 231—U.S. Political Culture and Foreign Relations (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Relates U.S. political culture to formulation of foreign policy. Analyzes American ideological preferences in historical perspective, contemporary public opinion, decision making and implementation. Concludes by examining linkages between foreign policy behavior and democratic process. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 241—Communist Political Systems (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): or Consent of Instructor. Or the equivalent. Systematic analysis of selected topics dealing with the political process of communist political systems. Effective: 1997

POL 242—Seminar in Comparative Politics (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing or consent of instructor. Systematic survey of theories and methods used in the study of comparative politics. Effective:

POL 243—Comparative Institutional Change (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate students. Comparison of institutional changes in countries of the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe during the period of transition to democracy. Special attention to institutions of mass representation - electoral and party systems and national legislatures. Effective: 2011 Spring Quarter.

POL 246—Policymaking in Third-World Societies (4) Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing or consent of instructor. Included in an analysis of policymaking process in Third-World countries are such topics as political resources, institutional resources, decision making, resource allocations, planning, and budgeting, implementation, and distribution of world resources. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 250—Policy Development and Impact in U.S. Courts (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing. Thorough overview of the literature regarding courts as policymaking institutions of government, with emphasis on the formation and implementation of judicial policy. Differences and similarities across the judicial, congressional, and executive branch policy processes. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 260—Political Parties (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Survey of selected topics in American and comparative parties. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 261—Political Behavior (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Survey of selected topics in political behavior and public opinion. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) when topic differs. Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

POL 274—Political Economy (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate students. Politics of economic policy as reflected in taxation, spending and regulation; impact of prices, employment, and growth on political demands; government responses to economic conditions; electoral politics and the political business cycle. Effective: 2011 Spring Quarter.

POL 279—Political Networks: Methods and Applications (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing. Structure of political networks, socio-matrices and affiliation networks; general networks characteristics: density, centralization, polarization, interdependence, dyadic and triadic characteristics: structural and role equivalence; subsets of networks: cliques, blocks and bloc modeling; characteristics of individuals in networks: centrality and prestige. Effective: 2007 Fall Quarter.

POL 280—Bayesian Methods: for Social and Behavioral Sciences (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): POL 212; Or equivalent to course. Pass One open to graduate majors only; Pass Two open to graduate students. Methodology seminar introducing Bayesian quantitative methods to issues and problems in political science and other social and behavioral sciences. Effective: 2011 Fall Quarter.

POL 281—Statistical Computing Issues in Political Science (4) Discussion/Laboratory—1 hour; Seminar—3 hours. Prerequisite(s): POL 213; Or equivalent to course. Restricted to graduate standing. Methodology seminar introducing computing issues in empirical models for political science and other social and behavioral sciences. Effective: 2005 Fall

POL 282—Advanced Modeling of Political Behavior (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): POL 215; Or equivalent to course. Restricted to graduate standing or with instructors permission. Applications of formal theory to political science. Review of relevant contributions in other social sciences. Consideration of advanced techniques in game theory. Rational and behavioral approaches. Effective: 2005 Fall

POL 283—Organizational Behavior (4) Seminar—4 hours. Organizational behavior as it relates to public sector decision making. Effective:

POL 284—Advanced Network Analysis (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): POL 211; POL 212; POL 279 Exponential Random Graph Models (ERGMS) of networks, game theoretic models of network formation and network dynamics, diffusion processes, shocks and network collapse, percolation, cross-network spillover processes, social and political applications of advanced network models. Effective: 2013 Fall

POL 290A—Research in American Government and Public Policy (4) Seminar—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Restricted to graduate students. Special research seminar on problems and issues in the study of American government and public policy. May be repeated up to 6 time(s) if topic differs. Effective: 2011 Spring Quarter.

POL 290B—Research in Political Theory (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate students only. Special research seminar on problems and issues in the study of political theory. May be repeated up to 6 time(s) if topic varies. Effective: 2010 Spring Quarter.

POL 290C—Research in International Relations (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate students only. Special research seminar on select problems and issues in the study of international relations. May be repeated up to 6 time(s) if topic varies. Effective: 2010 Spring Quarter.

POL 290D—Research in Judicial Politics (4) Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing in Political Science or consent of instructor. Contemporary research on judicial politics, judicial institutions, jurisprudence, and judicial behavior. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 290E—Research in Political Parties, Politics, and Political Behavior (4) Seminar—4 hours. Special research seminar on selected problems and issues in the study of political parties, politics, and political behavior. Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 290F—Research in Comparative Government and Policy (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Restricted to graduate students only. Special research seminar on select problems and issues in the study of comparative government and policy. May be repeated up to 6 time(s) if topic varies. Effective: 2010 Spring Quarter.

POL 290G—Research in Methodology (4) Lecture—3 hours; Term Paper. Prerequisite(s): POL 212 Special research seminar on selected problems and issues in methods in political science. May be repeated up to 3 time(s) topics vary. Effective: 2005 Fall Quarter.

POL 297—Internships in Political Science (2) Seminar—2 hours. Prerequisite(s): Open only to persons who have internships or other positions in governmental agencies, political parties, etc. Application and evaluation of theoretical concepts through work experience or systematic observation in public and political agencies. May be repeated for credit. May be repeated for credit. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 298—Group Study (1-5) Variable. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 299—Research (1-12) Variable. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 299D—Research (1-12) Variable. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 390—The Teaching of Political Science (1) Seminar—1 hour. Prerequisite(s): Graduate student standing in Political Science. Methods and problems of teaching political science at the undergraduate level. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.

POL 396—Teaching Assistant Training Practicum (1-4) Variable. Prerequisite(s): Graduate standing. May be repeated for credit. (P/NP grading only.) Effective: 1997 Winter Quarter.
