VET 299—Research (1-15) Variable—1-15 hours. Prerequisite(s): First-, second- and third-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Research May be repeated up to 6 time(s). (S/U grading only.) Effective:

VET 400—Professional and Clinical Skills -- Y1 (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): First-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Outline expectations and skill set required to participate successfully in the DVM curriculum as well as providing learning opportunity in communication, team-building, leadership, conflict management, stress management, critical thinking, professional behaviors, history taking, physical examination skills and medical record keeping. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2012 Fall Semester.

VET 401—Basic Foundations (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): First-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Essential basic information regarding histology, general pathology, biochemistry, pharmacology and population health that is foundational to all blocks. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2011 Fall

VET 402—Heme/Lymph/Coag (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): First-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. The lexicon, morphology, production, structure and function of peripheral blood cells, their bone marrow precursors and the lymphoid system, the process and regulation of hemostasis, and the laboratory evaluation of all of these in health and disease. Effective: 2011 Fall Semester.

VET 403—Musculoskeletal (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): First-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Anatomy, histology, and physiology necessary for understanding form and function of the bones, joints, muscles, and tendons in producing locomotion; and the pathologic processes that produce typical responses to injury of musculoskeletal structures in domestic animals. Effective: 2014 Fall

VET 404—Neuroscience/Senses/Behavior (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): First-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Establish a basis for clinical neurology, ophthalmology, and behavior by providing an integrated study of normal neurobiology, neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, neuropathology, neurpharmacology, neurotoxicology, ophthalmology and behavior. Effective: 2012 Spring

VET 405—Gastrointestinal/Metabolism (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): First-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Examine interrelatedness and functions of the organs associated with the gastrointestinal tract. Applied problems in pharmacology, physical examination, diagnostic testing, and imaging are used to reinforce a basic understanding of organ anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, and nutrition/metabolism. Effective: 2012 Spring Semester.

VET 406—Pharmacology/Nutrition/Toxicology (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. First-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Basic principles of nutrition and toxicology as well as pathophysiologic changes, diagnostic procedures and treatments of nutritional diseases and intoxications of domestic animals and wildlife. Incorporate case examples and directed self-learning to reinforce important concepts. Effective: 2015 Fall Semester.

VET 407—VMTH Rotation -- Y1 (1.5) Clinical Activity—15 hours. Prerequisite(s): First-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Integrate basic and preclinical material working with senior student in a clinical environment. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2012 Fall Semester.

VET 408—Cardiology/Respiratory (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Second-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Normal cardiovascular and respiratory system biology and the integrated response of those systems to injury or disease. Effective: 2012 Fall Semester.

VET 409—Renal/Urinary (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Second-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Examine and explore the normal morphology (gross and microscopic), physiology, pathology and imaging of the upper and lower urinary tract in multiple species. Effective: 2012 Fall Semester.

VET 410—Endocrinology/Reproduction (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Second-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Anatomy and histology of endocrine glands and reproductive systems in males and females. Understand the physiology and pathology at the molecular, cellular and organismal level. Effective:

VET 411—Skin (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Second-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Structure and function of the skin and specialized keratinized structures in veterinary species. Review mechanisms by which skin responds to perturbations and discuss wound healing and skin pathology. Effective: 2012 Fall Semester.

VET 412—Oncology (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Second-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Basic mechanisms, etiology, causes and the approach to diagnosis and treatment of cancer with emphasis on veterinary patients. Effective: 2012 Fall Semester.

VET 413—Immunology/Infectious Disease (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Second-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Integrate immunology, microbiology, virology, parasitology of common infectious, zoonotic and foreign animal diseases. Effective: 2012 Fall Semester.

VET 414—Population Health (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Second-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Principles of evidence-based medicine, study design and inference, and disease transmission in populations. Topics include biostatistics, outbreak investigation and response, diagnostic tests, vaccine strategies, food safety, foreign animal diseases, and impact of environmental health on animals and humans. Effective: 2012 Fall Semester.

VET 415—Clinical Foundations (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Second-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Essential concepts that are shared across year three blocks to include foundational material in anesthesia, surgery and emergency medicine with cases that include interpretation of clinical pathology and imaging. Effective: 2012 Fall Semester.

VET 416—VMTH Rotation - Y2 (1.5) Clinical Activity—15 hours. Prerequisite(s): Second-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Integrate basic and preclinical material working with a senior student in a clinical environment. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2012 Fall Semester.

VET 417—Professional and Clinical Skills -- Y2 (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Second-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Continue to build on foundations from freshman year in communication, history-taking, client interactions, team-building, conflict and stress management and professional behaviors. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2012 Fall Semester.

VET 430—Core Stream (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Third-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Longitudinal stream to include law, ethics, regulatory medicine, business, communication and disaster medicine. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2014 Fall Semester.

VET 431—Anesthesia and Surgical Stream (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Third-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Introduction to surgical anatomy, operative and anesthetic skills. (S/U grading only.) Effective:

VET 432A—Comparative Stream I (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Third-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Approach commonly encountered diseases and medical problems across multiple species. Development of problem-solving skills related to the medical problems of all species from the level of individual animals to groups/herds/populations. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2013 Fall

VET 432B—Comparative Stream II (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Third-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Approach commonly encountered diseases and medical problems across multiple species. Development of problem-solving skills related to the medical problems of all species from the level of individual animals to groups/herds/populations. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2013 Fall

VET 432C—Comparative Stream III (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Third-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Approach commonly encountered diseases and medical problems across multiple species. Development of problem-solving skills related to the medical problems of all species from the level of individual animals to groups/herds/populations. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2014 Spring

VET 433A—Small Animal Stream I (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Third-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Clinical manifestations, diagnostic methods, and the medical and surgical approaches to the infectious, musculoskeletal, neurologic and ophthalmologic diseases of small animals. Effective:

VET 433B—Small Animal Stream II (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Third-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Clinical manifestations, diagnostic methods, and the medical and surgical approaches to the dermatologic, dental, and gastrointestinal diseases of small animals as well as preventative medicine and nutrition. Effective: 2013 Fall Semester.

VET 433C—Small Animal Stream III (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Third-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Clinical manifestations, diagnostic methods, and the medical and surgical approaches to the cardiorespiratory, endocrine, and urinary medicine as well as diagnosis and therapy of oncologic diseases in small animals. Introduction to companion, avian, and exotic pet medicine and surgery. Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

VET 434A—Large Animal Stream I (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Third- and/or fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Fundamentals of entry level large animal medicine and surgery to promote development of problem-solving skills for diagnosis, treatment and control of various disease conditions. Effective: 2013 Fall Semester.

VET 434B—Large Animal Stream II (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Third- and/or fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Continuation of fundamentals of entry level large animal medicine and surgery to promote development of problem-solving skills for diagnosis, treatment and control of various disease conditions. Effective: 2013 Fall Semester.

VET 435A—Large Animal Stream--Equine Emphasis (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Third- and/or fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Fundamental and advanced levels of equine medicine, surgery, lameness and reproduction. Focus on management of individual equids. Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

VET 435B—Large Animal Stream--Livestock Emphasis (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Third- and/or fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Fundamental and advanced levels of livestock medicine and surgery of individual animals and population health. Focus on all livestock species including cattle, sheep, goats, pigs and poultry. Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

VET 435C—Large Animal Stream--Zoological Medicine Emphasis (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Third- and/or fourth-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Taxon- and topic-based approach to learning zoological medicine. Anatomy, physiology, nutrition, management, anesthesia, medicine, surgery and pathology on non-domestic free-ranging and captive species. Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

VET 436—Companion Small Mammals (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Third-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Fundamental understanding of the etiology, clinical presentation, diagnostic evaluation, treatment, prevention, and control of medical diseases of companion small exotic mammals. Effective: 2014

VET 437—Reptile and Avian Health (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Third-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Organized by organ systems to present reptile and avian health issues. Overview of applied anatomy, physiology and clinical pathology of common species will be provided through laboratory opportunities and discussion of common diseases and treatments. Effective: 2014 Spring

VET 438—Poultry (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Third-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Introduction to practical poultry medicine. Gross pathology, biosecurity and basic diagnostic tests. Visits to hatcheries, broiler, layer and turkey farms. Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

VET 439—Laboratory Animal (2-18) Variable—2-18 hours. Prerequisite(s): Consent of Instructor. Third-year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Basics of laboratory animal medicine including diseases, medicine, and surgery and comparative biology of the most common species and introduction to regulations. Combination of lecture, wet labs, and projects. Effective: 2017 Spring Semester.

VET 440—Business and Communication (1.5) Discussion—1.5 hours. Prerequisite(s): Third- and fourth year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Develop professional communication and business skills that are directly applicable in veterinary clinical practice by actively participating in a wide variety of interactive learning opportunities. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.

VET 441—Clinical Pathology (1.5) Discussion—1.5 hours. Prerequisite(s): Third- and fourth year standing in the School of Veterinary Medicine. Application of problem-solving and microscopy skills to laboratory data and laboratory specimens. Sections to include hematology, immunology, body fluids, exfoliative cytology, urinalysis, microbiology and clinical chemistry data and interpretation. (S/U grading only.) Effective: 2014 Spring Semester.
